Okay, everyone, so good morning. I think I'm audible and visible to all of you. Uh, so we are going to start a class in, uh, next, uh, 2-3 minutes, yeah? So it's 9.03, so maybe by 9.05, 9.06.
So we are going to start with the class. So, till then, just wait. I'm looking at your chat. So… Good morning, everyone, and happy Sunday to all of you.
Okay, so we'll start in 2-3 minutes, so let other people join, and then we will start with the discussion.
Okay, so everyone, good morning once again. So, I think we all are ready, right, guys? Everyone?
Yeah, shall we start with the class? Yes? Okay, fine. So, uh, yesterday we were talking about an API, so those who have not joined my today's class, so you can try to go through a lecture. So, lectures are already available inside your dashboard.
Uh, materials are already available, assignment is also available for my today's class. So, anyone, anyone who have missed my study's class, so please go through that particular lecture, and uh, yeah, so you all are welcome in terms of asking any kind of a question with respect to.
Even a previous or previous of previous class, I don't have any kind of an issue, so feel free to ask me a question in a doubt learning section, which is going to happen after.
This live classes, I believe we all know the rituals, right? So, we all know how do we conduct the classes.
So, to our, I'm going to discuss, and to our, we all are going to discuss, right?
So, yesterday, guys, I was talking about, basically, an API, and hopefully most of us are able to understand.
The core philosophy, a core logic behind an API, that what technically a meaning of an API is.
And, like, uh, how API is going to work, how with the help of fast API framework, we can try to create an API, a GET API, and a POST API.
Plus, we were able to even test it with respect to a curl, with respect to a browser, and with respect to our postman. So we have used Postman, we were able to test it, we have used browser, we were able to… test it, and um…
We have used, basically, a curl command, and we were able to test our API. Now, today, so what we are going to do, so today we are going to extend our same lecture, and there are two more methods, a popular one. One is a put method, which has been used for update option.
And another one is a delete method, which has been used to delete a data. So, we are going to talk about those two methods.
And, uh, after that, uh, what we are going to do, so we are going to productionize. We are going to deploy the API.
So yesterday, we were running each and everything in a local host.
And then, with the help of this NGRock, so we have basically done a port forwarding. So whatever is running in my local host, let's forward it to some other port, which is a global one, on HTTPS. This is something that we have done with respect to NGRock.
But today, what we can do, we can try to do a deployment over a cloud.
A backend deployment, right? A backend deployment, we can try to do over the cloud, and then back-to-back, back-to-back, we are going to test it. So it's not going to be very different, so we were using a local host and colon port number.
In a similar manner, I will be able to get a URL, because now we understand that what is the technically meaning of API is, so meaning of API is very simple.
Like, uh, this URL is helping me out to reach out to the particular system, and then, uh, route is helping me out.
To go to the particular method which is running in a particular system. This is what we understand as a layman.
In terms of an API. So, this is something that we are going to do it, guys, and then I'm going to introduce a testing of Yuri API as well. So, we have so many models.
And we have already exposed that models with the help of APIs, so we have a text-to-speech model, we have an image generation model, we have a chat completion model.
We have a streaming model with us, we have our embedding model with us, and, like, it's a complete model-based, you will be able to find out, or you can say a complete model store.
That we have already created, and all of these models are available to all of us, 24 by 7, which we are going to use it.
So today, I'm going to show you even those testing, but I believe now you will be able to do it. But still, it's my responsibility to show you that how UD API ecosystem, you will be able to access.
Because, again, from next class onwards, we will start using those API ecosystem. Because, uh, in the next class, so let's suppose if I'm going to talk about a vector database, so where Farsi, Pinecone, ChromaDB, Bavy.
Quadrant, all of these things comes into a picture. So, at that point of a time, we will start using an embedding APIs. We'll talk about that in the next class, but yeah, in today's class, I believe.
Agenda is clear. Right, guys? Everyone? Yeah, agenda is clear for today's class. What we are going to discuss, what we are going to do.
Yep. Okay, guys, fine. So, open up your laptop, open up your system, and let's get started.
Fine, and in case of any kind of a question, feel free to ask me a question, uh, like a now, or maybe, like, uh, after the class. It's completely okay with me. I don't have any kind of an issue.
In terms of solving your problems. I missed yesterday's class, not an issue at all. If you have missed today's class, it's completely okay. Recordings are already available, so you can feel free to go through a recording.
And ask me a doubt. And you can ask me a doubt, guys, from any of these classes, like, even from the previous classes, you can ask me a doubt, I don't have any issue, because I know.
Some of you will go through a lecture, some of you will go through a recording, uh, maybe in a later stage. So, obviously, when you will go through a recording, then you will be having our doubts, and uh… Just ask. So, okay, let me… those who have joined for the very first time. So, guys, uh…
This is your badge, technically, and uh… this is a place from where you will be able to join your lectures.
Right? And, uh, here is our second August lecture, then 3rd August lecture, then this is the studies lecture, and today's lecture will be available.
Uh, after completion of this entire session, maybe, like, by evening. By evening, it will be available. Not before evening, because it takes time for us to, you know, process the video and then upload the video. And all of these resources, so whatever I have discussed in a class, all of these resources are already available, so whether it's a code, or maybe it's something which I have written on my scribble ink, right?
Or, uh… so anything, anything which I discuss, I keep on uploading all of those resources inside your dashboard, so… that at any point of a time, you will be able to go through it, and you will be able to download, and you will be able to use it.
Everything will be in a single place, as simple as that. Okay, so that's just a recap of this lecture.
Now, open up your VS Code, guys, yeah? Open up your VS Code, and let's start creating some of the APIs. So, file…
Open folder… And, uh… here, so baby…
I can try to create a folder called as API. Api underscore.
Testing.
Okay, so just create a folder, just like, uh, we have created a folder yesterday, right?
So yesterday, we did the same thing, exact same thing. So here, uh, we can try to create a file called as testing.
By file. Okay, so let's create one, testing.py file, and now let's start writing a code for put and for delete.
Should I continue with this if I have missed this today's class? Yeah, I believe you should, but it will be better if you can, like, you know, go through the previous lecture, because.
Lectures will be dependent, right? Because whatever I have discussed in today's class, obviously, I'll be using those things even in my, like, today's class.
So, fine, guys. Uh… Let's start, uh, coding. So today, as I told you, that we are going to talk about, basically, put and delete, right? So, put and delete is another method. You all will be able to find out.
Uh, put means, basically, update operation. So, let's suppose we have a data, we have a record.
And, uh, I would like to, like, update those records. So, in that case, I can try to send a request as a.
Put request. And, uh, second option is, so let's suppose if I have to basically delete some of the record. So, in that case, I will try to send a delete request, as simple as that. So, put means update, delete means.
Delete. And I believe we all understand meaning of get and, like, a post, basically. So GET means getting our data in general, but yeah, uh, the difference between get and post is, so you will be able to send a GET.
A request with a open data, or everyone will be able to see a data. Post means you are sending some of the data in a body.
As simple as that. Okay, so now, here, so let me try to do an import. So, from fast… API, uh, import FastAPI. This is something that we have to do.
And then, uh, from… Pydentic, P-Y.
D-n-t-i-c, parenting. So, import base model. So, we are trying to import two things over here, guys.
So, one is a fast API, and another one is a Pyntic. Why we are using a Pyntic? So, I believe we all are aware about this particular thing. Let me ping you this in a chat, these two imports.
So now it's available in your chat as well. So, here we are trying to use our pydentic, because Pyntic will be used for a data validation. So, whenever we are sending a data.
It will try to validate it with the help of Pyntic class. So, this is a nomenclature, this is something that we try to follow inside a fast API. And nowadays, it's very normal. Nowadays, it's very normal in all Pythonic frameworks, so whenever you will go through even a lang chain or Llama index, or.
Even a crew AI, so which is going to help you out in terms of creating an agent.
Almost everyone is following up Identic, right? Almost everyone is following up and tick. So, going forward also, we will be able to, like, see such kind of things a lot.
Allotment is literally a lot. So here, for a data validation, we are going to use. It means whatever, like, data type that you are going to define, or whatever ranges of data you will be able to define, so Pyntic will be able to validate beforehand.
Now, so we are able to import these two things. Now, let's try to create a variable of FastAPI. So, that's cool, we have done, but this is nothing but a variable, or you can say.
Object of FastAPI class, we are able to create, which is going to help me out to expose anything.
As an API to anyone. Okay. Now, so, I'm going to talk about, first of all, a PUT method, right? Put means?
Update, yeah? Putman's update, basically. So, what we are going to update, by the way, so we need some sort of a data, right? So, if we have to update something, obviously, I need a data. Unless, suddenly, I don't have a data.
What I'm going to update. So there is a possibility that data is available into our databases, right? Maybe data is available in some of the file system, or maybe I can try to create a data over here itself. So let's suppose I'm creating a user DB.
Just a dummy data, I'm going to create over here. So, let's do it in this way. So, userDB, and here, so I have a record. So, maybe I have user ID 1.
And for that, so maybe I have a name. So, maybe I have a name over here, and name is equals to, let's suppose, Sudhan Shu.
Fine. And, uh, age is mine, age is not, like… 20, but yeah, let's keep it 30.
So, is Lanzhu, a name's Lanzhu, Ace is 30, fine. Then there is a second user, and uh… I'm going to… Keep it as a second user.
And let's suppose, uh, second username is? Amr Indra, and uh…
Again, name is not Tamarindra, so this one. Fine. Age is this?
Now, the third user, uh, I can try to pick Mustafa, I can see his name in the chat.
So… name is, basically.
Mustafa, fine. So, these are the records which I have created. So, let's suppose these are the sample records that we have taken.
Yeah, the other sample record that we have taken over here.
And we will try to update these records. Yes, we will try to update these records. So, as you can see, these records are nothing, it's just a… In a dictionary format, I'm trying to hold a data. In a key and value format, I'm trying to hold a data. Simple, right? So, we have basically a key. Let's suppose this is the ID.
And then, this is our value. This entire dictionary is a value. Now, inside this dictionary, again, we have a key and a value, key and a value pair. So, this style I'm trying to keep our data.
Over here. Maybe, uh, you must be having a dictionary inside a dictionary inside a dictionary, depends, right? Depends. So, it's up to you how you are keeping your data, how you are holding your data. So, you will be having a complete control over to it.
But yeah, I'm just going to take this very, very simple sample data, and.
Maybe I'll try to update this data with the help of this PUT request, right, with the help of this PUT request, I'll try to update the data.
Fine? Why you did not use a co-pilot for an auto-completion? Uh, I'll use it, don't worry. So, in the future, I'll use it. I think it's, uh, you guys are very, very new with respect to.
Like, you know, co-pilot and code autocompletion. So if I'll start using it, I can do a coding in 30 seconds, but with the same speed, you will not be able to understand.
So, we'll try to, you know, uh… spend some time together, so that we will be able to learn the basics.
And once we'll be able to run the basic, believe me, in a project, I'm not going to write a line-by-line code, because it will be a 10,000 line of a project.
Right? Then, obviously, I will be using a complete AI. Right? So, initially, I'll go slow, don't worry.
Uh, because I know, like, uh… unless and until we not… we are not coming on the same page, it will be very difficult for us to, you know.
Grasp a concept. Fine? Yeah? So this is, like, this is the style I used to follow in all the classes, so nothing new.
You will get used to it very soon. Okay, so here I'm able to create a data, right? For some of you, I know it will look boring, because you will say that, okay, so in two hours, we are, like, you know, covering a very small amount of a concept.
That's okay, because going forward, so we are going to pick up the pace.
Okay. Now, so here, we have a user, a data, right? User data that we have already created. Now, we have to update this data. So, obviously, to update this data, I'm going to use a.
Put a method, yeah? I'm going to use, basically, a put method. So, obviously, I'm going to, like, create a function, and that function will update my data.
And that function, I'm going to eventually open it up as an API, because this is the meaning of an API. This is something that we understand as an API.
Right? So we are going to create a function over here. So let's suppose I'm going to write down that def.
Uh, user, uh. User underscore update.
So maybe this is a function which I'm going to create.
And, uh, again, so when I'm trying to update a user, right, whenever I'm trying to update the user.
So, obviously, I have to pass a value that which user I would like to update, maybe user number 1, maybe user number 2, maybe user number 3, right?
So I have to pass those values that, okay, so user number 1, I would like to update. User number 2, I would like to update. And then I have to pass an updated data as well, both.
Yes, both. So here, as a parameter, I can say that, that, okay, so I'm going to pass user ID.
As a integer, let's suppose. And then I'm going to pass a user data. Now, so, as FastAPI is going to follow up Pydentic. Pydentic means via a Pydentic class, you have to route a data.
So, before this, before this, before writing this particular function, so you have to create a class, let's suppose, so that it will be able to take a data, it will be able to do a data validation.
So, I have a class, class called as user, you can try to give any other name, and then I'm trying to inherit a base model, so that it will be able to get all the property of the base model class, identity class, right?
So here, we have a user. And inside this user, so let's suppose we have a name, and name should be available as a string.
And then we have a age, and age should be available as an integer. So, we have basically a name, right? We have basically a name, and we have age. We have name, we have age.
Only these two dataset we have, right? So, we are looking for a validation only for these two datasets. Very simple. Okay.
So, here, I have created this particular function. I'm trying to create this function, update function, right?
What update function will do? So, it needs user ID, means which ID I have to update. And then, against that, I need this data.
Yeah, I need this data, then only I will be able to update, right? Let's suppose if I'm trying to update ID number 2.
So, I need a data that, okay, fine, so what is the new data? This is the old data, right? This is the old data. So what will be the new data for user ID 2?
So that data also I have to pass. Now, that data I can try to pass via Pyrendig class. Very simple, right? Via PyntonDig class, I can try to pass this particular data.
So, user. So, user is, like, user data is coming from where? So, my identity class, capital U, that I have created, this parentic class, means validate it, pass it.
Simple, and this Pyth class is taking what? Name and age, and this name and age, yes, this name and age is required inside my dataset, as simple as that. Okay.
So, here, uh, we will try to pass an ID, that which one to update, and then.
The equivalent data set. For that particular ID. Now, here inside this, we can try to keep a check. We can write maybe EF kind of a statement, that if user ID exists, do this. If user ID doesn't exist.
Do that. Simple, right? So, here we can try to write that if user ID.
User ID in userDB, this dataset. If user ID is in userDB, then try to basically update a user DB.
For that particular user ID with this data, whatever data that you are getting.
Means we are getting a data from here, right? So we are trying to extract those data, and against that ID, we are going to update it.
And then return your message, that, okay, so I have updated, like, a user updated.
Successfully, and maybe you can try to return whatever message you want. So we are returning a message that user updated successfully with this particular data, with this particular, like, a user ID.
With this particular user ID, so it has been updated. So, this is something that we are trying to do.
Hope this makes sense to all of us, right? So, based on this particular condition.
If this is not going to happen, right? If this is not going to happen, so maybe you can try to write an else statement, or maybe you can try to write.
Just a parallel return over here that do this. So, else, return a message, user not found. So, whatever user ID that you are trying to enter.
That user doesn't even exist. And if user doesn't exist, what I will do?
I should not append any new data, right? I should always update it.
So, this is a very simple and plain function, so which is going to update my.
Data set, right? This is going to update my data set.
Now I have to expose this function. Right? I have to expose this function so that from any programming language, from any other framework, you all will be able to access it.
And I think we know the drill over here, right? So how I will be able to expose.
Yes, guys? Yes, I believe we all understand, right? We all know how we can expose it.
So this is the simple function, which is going to work here in this program, right? But let's suppose I have to make it, like, exposed to the entire world, not to the world as of now, let's suppose, like, two other programs in my local system.
Let's suppose if I have to expose. I think we all know the game, right? This is the meaning of API that we were trying to understand since yesterday class.
It's today's class, yeah? So, simple. Call what? App. App is what? App is my variable of FastAPI, right? Okay.
Okay, so call app, and app.app. What I should call? I should call put this time, because I'm trying to create this function for what? I'm trying to create this function.
To update the user, yeah? To update the user. So I'm going to call app.put.
As simple as that, right? App.put, okay, that's cool. So app.put, I'm going to call, so that I will be able to update the user, and now I would like to create a route.
Means, at this location, you will be able to access this particular function.
The user update function which I have written. So, route depends upon me. I can, like, give any kind of a route that I want. No one is going to stop me. That, don't use this route, don't use that route. It's completely up to me what route I'm going to give.
Right? What route I'm going to give. So, simple, here what I will do, I'll just write maybe, like, a… user underscore db slash data slash maybe a V1.
Slash update. Something like this, I have given a route. Means, when you will try to.
Go through this route, then only you will be able to update.
I believe we all know this philosophy, right? Right, guys? Everyone?
You know? So I can, I can try to give whatever route that I want, as simple as that. So, here I have given this many… this much of lengthy routes, you can try to give even a bit more lengthier, or maybe a bit shorter, that's completely fine, right?
So, UserDB data slash update, and then… When you are using a PUT, right? So, when you are using a put, you have to pass what? You have to pass, basically, user ID. So, maybe you can try to parameterize it over here.
Saying that, that, okay, so I will try to do an update for this particular user ID. So, user ID. So, here, in a route itself, I'm sending.
This data. That, okay, you can send a… you can append a user ID over here as a parameter. So this is nothing but as a parameter, so that it will be able to understand that, okay, which record I have to update.
Which record we have to update, and as a data. Right? As a data.
So, in a route itself, I'll try to send that which record we have to update as a parameter.
And then as a data, I'm supposed to send this data, name and age. Technically, this information I have to send.
Against the user ID, right? So that it will be able to get those data, and then it will be able to update it.
It will be able to update it against that particular ID which I'm sending. Fine? Again, that particular ID I'm sending.
So, here, I'll try to send a data inside my body.
As simple as that, I'll try to send a data inside my body.
So, this is, uh… like a core philosophy behind upput, that, okay, update this one, and route whatever you want, just give that particular route, as simple as that.
Okay, so save it, and let's try to run it. So, how we are going to run, by the way, guys? So, we are going to run by UV call.
Right? Uv call, what is my file name? My file name is testing. So, testing… only testing.
Right. So my file name is Testing, by the way. Colon, app, and hyphen, hyphen, I'm going to give reload.
Reload, so that, you know, it will be able to reload itself. Uh, it will not ask unnecessarily for me whenever I'm going to make any kind of a changes.
So that's only, like, reason I'm giving a reload. Otherwise, you can even skip it, that's completely fine. Uh, but it will not be able to make the changes when you are going to make a changes, like, immediately. So, in an API, it will not reflect it.
So, find, hit enter. If everything is going to work, so it is going to give you, like, uh, waiting for an application startup, application startup, completed.
Let me ping you this code so that you can test it along with me. So test it, guys, quickly.
Sir, explain 9 number 23, what is there inside line number 23? See, it's a dictionary. So, here, from this class, I'm going to pass name and A, so technically, this kind of a data will come, right? This kind of a data will come.
And it's a dictionary operation which I'm trying to do. So, userDB.
User ID, right? So, against this user ID, I'm trying to pass some data. For example, let me show you this example here. So, new file.
Uh, testing, or maybe, like, a demo.ipynv. Let me create this file, so those who are.
Like, uh, not clear with, uh, this one. So, here, I'm showing you one example, dictionary example. So let's suppose I have created a dictionary over here, right? I have created a dictionary over here.
Now, inside this dictionary, I have basically name. Is equals to something like this, yeah?
No. So, if I have to update, basically, this name, right, if I have to update, basically, a name.
So what I will do, I'll try to access dictionary with name, first of all, right? And then, instead of Alice, so I can write SUDH.
Yeah? So I'm trying to access a key, and then against that, I'm trying to change its value.
Right? I'm trying to access a key, and against that, I'm trying to change the value. Now, if you will see your dictionary, so now it's not a list, now it's basically SUDH. So basically, I have done what? I have done an update.
I've done what? I have done an update operation. Same thing.
Right? Same thing. So, user ID. So, this is my key, let's suppose one is a user ID. So, from this particular dictionary, userDB, user underscore db, I'm trying to pass a new data.
From where I'm getting a new data, I'm getting a new data.
By validation… after validating it with the parentic classes. Making sense to all of us, guys, anyone who is confused with line number 23?
Yes, anyone who is confused? No? Cool, right? Everyone?
Like, we are able to understand, so it's just a dictionary operation, we are doing nothing much. Just a dictionary, simple, plain dictionary operation, yeah?
A module not found, someone is saying, uh, FastAPI, uh, just try to install FastAPI then.
Yep. Uh, that's the only issue. If you are getting model, not final number 21 function, can you explain one more time? Line number 21?
This one? So this function is nothing like… this function is trying to take two inputs. One is a user ID. As per my data again.
So, this is not, like, hard and fast that you should always pass this one. You should always pass based on what you are trying to update. So what I'm trying to update.
So, first of all, I'm trying to update this particular record, right? Let's suppose I'm updating this record.
Now, how you will be able to update? First of all, you have to go to a key.
This one, and then against that, only you will be able to update. Let's suppose you have to change my names, Danju. Maybe you are not liking this particular name called as Ranju. You would like to replace Ranju with someone else.
Right? So, to reach out to Sudhanshu, you have to reach out to, first of all, name, right?
Yeah? Name. And then, against this name, you have to change this one.
Again, this particular name, you have to change this one. So, first of all, you will reach out to this, then from there, you will be able to reach out to this. For example, right, for example, if I'm going to take this data itself, right? This data itself.
Let's suppose if I have to update this record. Yeah, I have to update this record. How I will be able to update? So, basically, I will try to call userDB dictionary.
Right? If I have to update this record, so userDB dictionary. So, let's suppose I have to update record number 1.
Yeah? Record number 1. So, UserDB1, it is going to give me what? Userdb1 is going to give me this one.
This data, right? Now. So I have to update it. So how I can update it? Nothing. Equal to, and replace it with the new data.
So, name is equals to… name is equals to maybe, uh… instead of Sudan Shu, so let's write, like, a…
Come out over here, yeah? Kumar, and then age is equal to something. So fine, update is done, right?
Userdb, update is done. Simple. So, previously, it was Sudhansu. Now it became name is equal to Kumar.
As simple as that, if I have to go into a… first to record, and into, basically, a name. How I can go into the name?
Simple again, name, so it will be able to fetch just a name.
So I believe we all know this kind of operation, and that's the reason why I've asked you.
Please go through my lectures, because in very, very detailed, very, very depth, I have discussed each and everything, and you need a fundamentals. You need a fundamentals, or basic of Python.
So those who are not aware about it, even I have asked you last time, last class, last Saturday or Sunday, and again, I'm asking you, spend this entire week, at least.
45 minutes to 1 hour per day, and believe me, you will be comfortable by next Saturday itself.
In Python, right? Because this small, small things will keep on hurting you.
Not today, even tomorrow, and even in the future. Right? If you are not going to revise it. And it's just a one-time game.
And whenever you are going through my lectures, please don't take a note. I'm not teaching someone to, like, you know, pass the exam. Whenever you're going through my lectures, especially.
Code it parallelly, right? Open up your laptop, maybe to a screen, and then… do it in parallel. This is the best way to learn, and believe me, in that way, you will not have to spend a time, like, again on the same topic.
Fine, guys, cool. I think we are able to understand those who have had a confusion with respect to this update. I believe this confusion is like a… Uh, not there, right?
Yes, everyone?
Okay, so some of you are getting an error, so I can see that in a chat, and there should be a way to see all the endpoints added in a different file. What is the question, by the way?
Okay, fine. So, here… We have basically this, uh, like, uh, we have basically this, uh, entire, uh, function, and we have exposed it, right? We have exposed it. So, if you will go and check, so my app is running where? So, my app or my API is running, at localhost 8000.
Okay? That's fine. If I have to access it, and if I have to make some sort of update, or if I have to test it.
So simply, I can go to my. Uh, localhost, 8000 port number.
So, 8000 port number. And, uh, yeah, so detail not found, that's completely fine. I can do slash DOCS, so that it can open up a.
Fast Swagger API. Fast API provides a Swagger API. And as you can see, that there is a PUT request.
Which is visible to me in a Swagger API, slash docs, right?
Are you able to get it, guys? Everyone?
Yes? We all are able to get it right. Now, to execute it, it's the same command, guys.
Uv corn, space. Whatever file name that you have given, in my case, I have given my file name is equal to testing. So, file name.
Colon app, app will be static, and then hit enter. If you are going to give hyphen hyphen reload, it simply means that, that in a runtime, if you are going to make any changes here, light, it will be reflected automatically, it will try to refresh it automatically. That is the only meaning.
Yeah? Nothing much. So, we are able to see, for me, it's showing GET. So, it's showing GET, it simply means that you have not given a put over here. You have given a get over here. That's the only reason.
It's showing you GET, yeah? So here, change it. Okay, so now, if we have to test this, uh, you know, API, so maybe I can click on try this out, yeah, try this out, and here, so we can try to pass maybe a user ID. So here, user ID is equal to, let's suppose, one I'm going to pass.
Yeah, user ID is equal to 1, I'm going to pass.
And name a value and age value I have to pass as a data. Fine. So, user ID is equal to 1, I'm going to pass, and uh… let's suppose name is equals to… Name is equals to… I'm going to pass KUMAR.
Kumar, right? And age is equal to, let's suppose, 40-something, which I'm going to pass. And then, if I'm going to call execute.
Like, if I'm going to call execute, now, if I'll come over here, so it's a 200 request, put 200, right? So, 200 means?
It was a good request, basically. And response, I'm able to get somehow.
Right? Now, so, here, in a response body, you will be able to find out that user updated successfully.
This is something that we have written, right? So, user updated successfully, and then user ID, it is going to return. So, user ID is.
Or user detail it is going to return, right? So, name and is, it is going to return that particular data.
Right? Whatever, like, update that I have done. So, successfully, I'm able to update a record.
Simple, yeah? So, successfully, I'm able to update a record over here.
So this is how this is, like, a working, guys, and this entire API is available at which place? At this particular place. I'm trying to pass… what? I'm trying to pass.
Id, right? Uh, if I have to do a curl, so I can do a curl as well. You will be able to find out a curl command. So, whereas at data, I'm trying to pass name is equal to kumar, H is equal to 40.
Over here. Now, so, let's suppose I would like to print an updated data somewhere.
Yeah, I would like to, like, print and updated data somewhere. Uh, not an issue, so I can try to, like, maybe, uh, say that, okay, so in a console, just try to print a.
I can even write an API for that, but yeah, let's try to, like, do just a print operation. So, print user DB over here.
And, uh, now… So, let's go ahead and let's try to… hit this API.
Once again. Yeah, hit this API once again.
Okay, so it is not able to come out of this one.
No, no, no, it will not work in this way. So…
It is taking a global one.
Okay, so… Bajam?
Yeah, so now I'm able to see the latest change, right? So name is equal to Kumar, H is equal to 40, so I'm just, like, we were able to get it even before, but yeah, I was just trying to show you, uh, maybe somewhere. In a console, I was trying to show you that, okay, fine, so… This is something which you can see, that whatever upgrade which I'm trying to send with respect to a particular ID, so I'm able to get that particular data.
As simple as that. So it simply means that I'm able to update a record.
And that was the whole objective, that was the whole idea.
Yes, share the pop-up window block kasi karin. Let me do one thing, so attendees can chat with host and panelist, yeah.
So now, you will not be able to see each and everyone's chat, because I think it will become, like, a too much chatty and noisy, uh, right? So, I will be able to see your chat, and you will be able to see only my chat.
I have all the control, don't worry. So, you will not get disturbed at any point of a time. So, this is the code, guys. Again, I have pinged it to you.
And if we have to run the code, so what is a command? So command is very simple. Uvcorn, in my study's class, I have used the exact same command, and I'm not using anything different today. It's exactly the same.
Yeah? It's exactly the same.
Okay, so can I show another example for an update? I'll show you multiple examples, just wait. First of all, try to execute this particular example, I'll show you that, a multiple one.
Fine, guys. So, we are, we are basically able to update this particular record, whatever record that is available to us, right?
Now, if we have to update maybe a record number 2, if we have to update record number 3, I will be able to update all of those records.
Now, let's try to test it with the help of Postman. So, I believe we all have installed a Postman.
Uh, yesterday itself, right? So we all have installed the Postman. Now here, so if you'll come to Postman, and if you have to hit your API, so simple, you have to select, first of all, a type of the request. So, type of the request is what?
Put, right, type of the request is technically a put over here.
And then you have to basically give a URL. So, whatever URL at which your data is available, so you have to give that particular URL, and then you have to pass the data.
Right? You have to basically pass the data. So, here, uh, let's suppose I have this URL, so localhost8000.
And then… Local host, 8000.
And, uh, this is the route.
This is the route. User underscore db slash data slash v1 slash update.
Uh, let's suppose we are trying to update record number 2, and data-wise, so we can try to pass a data over here, so there will be… name, let's suppose.
So, name, so name is equals to, maybe, something, FSDS… kind of a things. And then there will be an age. Age is 10. Now I'm going to send it.
And, uh, yeah, so user updated successfully, user name is equals to whatever name that I have given against.
What? Against, basically, my user ID. So, against my user ID 2, I have updated this particular record. Now, if you'll go and check your console.
You will be able to find out the exact same thing, right?
So, in your console. Against user ID 2, as we can see, this is the new record which has been updated.
Now, this record, I'm trying to update it in my local.
Maybe I have a database, and inside a database, I can go ahead and I can try to update the record.
Maybe I have some sort of a JSON file, or maybe a CSV file, maybe a TXT file. Inside that, I would like to do something.
Everywhere, I will be able to do it. At the end of the day, whole idea was to call a put.
And with the help of PUT. Update some of the data, update some of the records.
Making sense, guys? To all of us?
Yes?
So someone is asking me that, what is the difference between put and patch? Okay, so there is another method which exists. So what PUT will do, so PUT will try to update the entire record, means with… against whatever key or against whatever value you're trying to do something. So put will try to, you know, update the entire record.
Whereas patch, as its name suggests, patch, right? So, patch means what? So we are trying to do something partially. So, we are trying to apply a patch on top of something.
So, patch will help you out in terms of updating a record, but partially. Put means a full record update. So, that's a whole difference between put and patch. Both, eventually, are going to help you out in terms of updating the record.
Yeah? In terms of reading the record. Okay, so here we are able to update the record. Now I'm going to terminate this program, and now, let's try to understand a delete operation.
Fine? So, put is completely fine, we are able to do it.
Now, let's try to understand the delete operation. And I have seen, guys, that many of you have not done the homework. So, I have just seen, like, a couple of ping inside the group, so where people were saying.
That I'm able to do a homework. Now, that's another problem, right? That's another problem. See, uh… This is a technical class, right? It's not a movie. So, which you will just watch and leave.
You have to go ahead with the assignments as well. The assignment which I'm giving you on a regular basis. Going forward.
That assign will become a challenges, right? And believe me, if you are going to do those assignments, if you are going to do those challenges.
Every time you do an assignment, every time you do a challenges.
The success rate. The transition rate.
Will increase each and every time. So, you will be… you will get closer to your, like, a goal, whatever, like, goal or ambition that you have.
Maybe to build a product, or maybe to make a transition, maybe to get a higher salary. But if you're not doing it.
In every next class, you will end up asking just a question.
Which is not going to help you out. Yeah? Where do… so, that's the problem, right? Mohiti is asking, where to submit the assignment? I believe we had a discussion. We had these discussions.
Australia itself. That is, that is a major problem, guys.
Yep.
So, I'm expecting you to, you know, complete all the assignment, all the coursework, all the homework I'm trying to give you.
And now you can take a help of AI. I don't have any kind of an issue.
At the end of the day, what I want you to do is.
Completed. Because I know when you are going to execute something in your system.
That is the only point where you learn. You never learn when I come and teach it to you.
So you actually learn when you do it, on your own, in your own system, by typing, maybe by.
Doing a copy and paste, that's okay. Yeah?
So, thank you, sir. Now, chats are not disturbing anymore. Yeah, we have all the control, don't worry. So, I can see all of your chat, but you are not able to see each and every one's chat. I have just turned that off.
I'll switch it on after the class, yeah?
How to see updating a terminal? Just print it. I have applied a print over here, right? A simple print statement, so that every time it is going to update, it will try to print. Simple.
Yeah? Okay, now let's talk about a delete operation, guys. Yep, delete operation. So, delete means it will try to delete something, some records. This is the whole idea behind the delete operation, right?
Okay, so let's write a function, so def… Yeah? Def, uh, delete, underscore user function. So, something like this, I'm going to write. So, delete underscore.
User function, okay? User function. Now, to delete any user, I just have to pass a user ID. So, user.
Id I'm going to pass, so user ID as an integer.
Now, it will try to check if user ID in userDB. So, if user ID exists, let's suppose you have passed a user ID is equal to 4.
That is not even available over here. So what it will delete? Nothing, right? It will not be able to delete anything.
Yeah? So it'll try to just check that user ID in UserDB. So, if this is true.
If this holds true, then it will try to call a delete operation. This is how anything can be deleted in a dictionary. For example, if I have this dictionary, like, userDB dictionary, and if I have to delete record number 2.
How I can delete record number 2? Simple. Call del function, yeah, and then dictionary name, user underscore, db, and then try to give a record, whatever record that you would like to maybe delete. So let's suppose I would like to delete, maybe, a second record.
Yeah? Second record. So, delete userDB, second record. This particular key. So, execute it. Now, if you are going to print userDB.
So we don't have, uh, record number 2. We have record number 1, and we have record number 3. 2 is gone. I have already deleted it. So, same operation we are trying to perform, same dictionary operation, right? So, delete user ID.
Whatever user ID user is going to pass, and then return a message that user deleted successfully. If user ID doesn't exist, it will fall inside else statement.
And it will return you that user not found. As simple as that. User not found, okay? Fine.
Now, if I have to convert it into an API. Again, we know the drill.
Yeah? If we have to convert this one into an API, I think we know the drill.
Simple, decorate it app dot, right? And then delete. Call delete.
And then give some route, maybe userDb slash data slash v1 slash delete, and then you have to pass the user ID.
So whatever route that you are going to like it, so just give that particular route, and it will reach out to the route, it will try to perform the operation.
So, here is a code, guys, I have pinged you. So, hope you all are able to see my code in our chat.
Yeah? So this is the code, by the way. So it will be able to delete it. Now, let's make this app up and running.
Yeah? Let's execute it. So again, open up your command, clear.
And UVCon, right? Uvcon, my file name, and then reload. Reload is not important.
You can leave it or you can keep it. Fine, guys, yeah, and please change your file name. So, if your file name is not testing, don't use this command. Change your file name. Testing is my file name, as you can see over here, right? This is my file name.
Fine? Okay, that's cool. So, let's try to do experimentation, guys, with respect to… This delete operation. So, I can try to use a curl, I can try to use, basically, SwaggerUI.
So let's do it in a Swagger UI. Here, right? Here.
So, localhost, and then docs. So, here, my PUT request is available, my delete request is also available, right? My put is available, my delete is available, both is available. Put, we have already tested. Let's test with the delete. It's a very easy one. So, click on try it out, and then pass a user ID. So, user ID is equal to 2, execute.
And, uh, user deleted successfully. Simple, this is the response I am able to receive. Good response, right? Uh, let's suppose if I'm going to give user IDs equal to 7, execute.
So, in case of User ID 7, user not found. That's a response that you will be able to see.
Yeah? So, user technically not found. This is the response I'm able to get it. I can do it even with the help of curl.
Right? I can do it even with the help of curl, because curl is going to consider just this one, and if you have to pass the data. But we are not passing any kind of a data.
Hyphen D over here, right? I can even test it with the help of what? A postman. So, over here, select this delete operation, and then my entire URL was what?
Uh, delete. I believe this was the URL, and then try to give the user ID, right? Try to give the.
User ID, keep it none. And then, send. User deleted successfully. Not sending any raw data, so keep it none.
Yeah? Keep it none over here, inside the postman. So, just select the delete option over here, and then reach out to this particular location, so where your, uh… method has been hosted, uh, give a parameter, user ID, and then if, again, I'm going to send it.
User not found, because I have already deleted it, right? I've already deleted it. So again, if I'm going to send, not found, not found, not found, not found, but it is hitting my API, it is hitting my API, as you can see, but yeah, there is no such user.
With that particular ID, so what it is going to delete? Nothing.
Fine, guys. Postman and unicorns are same. No, not at all. Postman is basically a tool.
A tool which is going to help you out in terms of, uh, like, testing an API, basically.
Right? Uv corn is nothing but a kind of a library, which is going to help me out in terms of executing a fast API.
It's not same. I love Swagger, as it gives a curl command as well. Yeah, I mean, like, curl command is not difficult, so simple, like, a curl, and then method name you try to give, then you try to give a URL.
Then you give a header, then you give a data. End of the story.
This is what a curl command is. Right?
Fine, guys! How the autocoding is coming into your system help, uh, where in my system, it's not coming. So, okay, if you would like to, like, do an auto-coding, so just, uh, go to this icon, which is called as extension.
I talked about this one, I believe, in. My second class, if I remember. So, just try to click here, just try to click on this icon. I believe my mouse cursor is visible to all of you, and then try to search Copilot.
Or GitHub Copilot, so anything is going to work. So Copilot. Co.
Uh, PILOT. P-i-l-o-t. So, GitHub GoPilot, and then, like, try to install it, and likewise, there are, like, so many things which is available, so you can try to, you know, use any of these.
Fine, guys? Is it clear? A put and delete operation? By the way?
Yeah. So, that's great.
And it's completely fine. Anam?
Okay. So, actually, Maja, agi biah?
Okay, so this is done by the way. So, now… Uh, what we are going to do. So, maybe we can try to, uh, you know, deploy this entire solution, right? Maybe we can try to deploy this entire solution over some cloud platform. So, as of now, this entire thing is running in my local host.
And yesterday, we have seen that if we have to do a port forwarding, port forwarding means if something is running on my local host at some particular port, and URL.
So, with the help of ngrock, I will be able to expose it to the entire world.
Right? This is something that we have already discussed, right? In my studies lecture itself, this is something which we have already gone through.
Uh, that, uh, with the help of port forwarding, uh, for example, NGRock, by the help of NGRock, I will be able to expose it so that anyone and everyone will be able to come, and they will be able to test it.
Or they will be able to use my APIs. Right? Uh, but let's suppose I don't want to keep a solution in my system.
Not at all. Like, I don't want any kind of a solution in my system.
I just want all of these things on some server, or maybe on some cloud platform.
So, how I can do that, basically, how I will be able to do a deployment.
Of this entire API, this entire thing, which, whatever is running in my local system.
It should not be available in my local system, it should be available somewhere in a global platform, so that.
Anyone will be able to access it without even tunneling or without even port forwarding. The port forwarding that we have done yesterday.
So, to do that, obviously, you have to deploy the solution on any of the cloud platforms. So there are tons of cloud platforms out there.
Not just one or two tons, means literally tons of provider. So, AWS, Azure, GCP is the major provider. Apart from that, there is a render, there is a lot of bare metal cloud provider, so many, so many options you have, by the way.
So, I'm going to now show you that how you will be able to bring this solution, which is a very small one, obviously, right, but on a cloud, how you can try to push it, so that whatever solution going forward we'll build.
We will try to build end-to-end. Going forward, we'll try to add a flavor of databases as well. So, many more flavors we'll keep on adding, so that we can reach out to the reality, right? Reach out to the reality, because obviously.
In real, code is not going to run in your local system.
Code will be available somewhere in a cloud platform, yes? Somewhere in a cloud platform.
So, NGRock not working in Mac, any other alternative? No, it works in a Mac, by the way. So, there is a Mac installation, uh, which is available for MGRock.
You have to just place inside that, like, a folder, and then execute it.
Someone is saying… something is saying, unable to hear, is it? Guys? Am I available to all of you?
Satan, please check your, uh, this one. Mike, I'm audible and visible to all of you.
Okay, so now, what we'll do, we can try to push this code base, right? We can try to push this entire codebase into some of the.
Cloud platform, right? Some of the cloud platform. Now, to push this entire codebase into some of the cloud platform. So, basically, we have to do some sort of a preparation.
What kind of preparation? So, C. In my local system, when I have done this setup, and when I'm able to run this fast API.
I have done a couple of installation, right? So, I have done installation for FastAPI.
And I have done installation for UV corn. This is something I have done. Now, what cloud is going to provide? So, cloud is going to provide you a machine.
Right? A machine, a compute, or maybe, like, a RAM it is going to provide you, maybe a hard disk it is going to provide you.
But, uh, those cloud platforms never knows that what you are holding inside your code.
Or what kind of a library, what kind of a dependency that you have.
Right? Cloud platform will not be having any kind of idea, because there will be, like, millions of people who will try to come and who will try to deploy a tens of millions of application on a cloud platform.
So, Cloud Platform will not be aware about that, that what you are trying to deploy. It is just going to give you a machine. A machine which is public.
So, as of now, I'm using my machine, but it is not public, it is basically my local machine, right? Local machine.
But on a cloud, you will be able to get something which will be a public machine. So, whatever is running here, which I'm able to access, so if I'm going to run the same thing on that machine.
All of us will be able to access. This is what it means, right, in terms of a deployment. In a layman way, right? As a beginner.
So, Cloud Platform will not be having any idea that, uh, what kind of a dependency, what kind of an installation it has to do. So you have to mention it. How? So, in case of Python project, so you have to create, basically, a file called as requirement, R-E-Q-U-I-R-E-M-E-N-T-S dot.
Txt, requirements.txt. If your spelling is going to be wrong, it will not work. So, it should be requirements S, S.
Yes? Requirements, basically. Check their spelling, the spelling which I have written over here, you have to use the exact same spelling. And then you have to mention a library. So, which library we have installed?
So, technically, we have installed a… like a fast API?
And basically, we have installed… we have installed UVCore. These two installations we have done, base was Python.
Right, base was Python, but FastAPI and UVCore is something that we have.
Uh, like, uh, installed, right? We have, uh, technically, uh, this is something that we have installed.
So, okay, this is something that you have to mention. So, requirement.txt.
And, uh, we have this particular file, uh, testing.py file is, uh, there with us, right? So, is there with us. Now, what we can do… we can try to choose a cloud platform, so where we can do a deployment.
Yeah? Where we can do a deployment. So, now, let's go ahead, and let's try to do a deployment. If there'll be some error, if it is going to say that I have to install even Pydentic, as people are suggesting over here inside a chat, we'll do it. We'll do it on the fly.
So, first of all, guys, you have to push your code. Where?
On a GitHub, yeah? So, on a GitHub, you have to push your code. And, uh, you have to choose your cloud platform. So I'm going to choose a render, which is going to be free, it is not going to ask for the credit card.
Uh, and you will be able to do a deployment, right? You will be able to do a deployment.
So let me go to a Google, and once you will go to a Google.
Render, yeah? So, just try to search for a not REN.
Dr render. Fine, a render. So, this is the platform, guys. I have pinned you the link, right? And you just have to do a login.
So those who are doing a login for the very first time, so please take your time, 2-3 minutes, it should not take more than that.
Right? Those who have already logged in, so come to the dashboard. So once you are going to log in, so it is not a big deal to create an account, it's very easy, right? Just use a Google sign-up option.
And you will be able to create the account. So do it, guys, and confirm me inside a chat.
Sign into render, so I'm going to sign in with the Google.
Yeah. So just try to sign in. Just use a Google option. You will be able to do a login quickly.
Done, okay, visa, versat number should also match in the requirement file. Leave it, we'll see.
Like I said, so if you are going to get a bug, uh, we'll solve it. And in that way, you will learn more.
Just, just, uh, log in, guys, everyone.
Just log in and confirm me inside a chat. I can see done, dun-dun for many people. I'm just waiting for most of you.
Okay, it's done. Yeah, most of you have done, okay. Good.
So anyone who has not done, so please ping me, maybe by saying no, or something.
Yeah, is it free? Yeah, it's completely free. It will never ask you to add the, like, a card.
Okay, one moment, fine, I'm waiting. I'll give you, like, another 2-3 minutes of time.
So take your time. Yes, not able to log in. Why not able to log in? It's a simple portal, right? Just go ahead and… Click on that Google sign-in, and then you will be able to log in, as simple as that.
Same Gmail credential. I mean, like, it's up to you what Gmail credential you are going to use.
No, if you're doing a Google sign-up, then this lengthy option is not allowed, like, not required. You can just do and go and do as a sign-up.
Click on the Google login, and then… approve your Google sign-up.
Logged in using GitHub, yeah, that is also fine. If you have logged in using a GitHub.
Not an issue at all. Is it the same like we did in a streamlined in our FSDS? Yeah, Streamlint is also a cloud platform, and Render is also another cloud platform, so Extremely generally supports Streamlit-based application itself. Render supports everything.
Yep.
Mean times are how you find these free tools which blocks.
Okay, so… If you are active in a tech, you will get all the news and information. So, you just have to keep yourself active.
Already having a render login since, like, Iron Time 2021, okay, that's great.
So now, uh, we have a render account, right, and this render is going to provide you a machine.
Right? A machine, so where you will be able to, you know, go and, uh, you will be able to productionize your application. It means whatever is working in your local system.
You can try to put that up into a render, and it is going to give you a shared instances, means there will be a big machine, which will be shared by multiple people. There is a payment option, so if you are going to attach a payment option, then it will try to give you more and more facility in terms of scaling, security, and many more things, right? Many more things that are going to give you.
But even without a payment, so, so far. I'm not sure about future, right? Yeah? But so far, so, without even adding a card, you will be able to do a deployment. Whereas, so if you're going to opt for Azure GCP, or AWS.
Without card, at least you have to add the card. They are going to give you a free credit for the very first time, uh, for, like, a couple of months, or maybe for a particular amount.
But you have to add the card, and they will start charging once you're, like, a free credit is going to be over.
So here, render is not like that, at least till now. I don't know what is going to happen in future, by the way. So, here, we have our render account.
Now, parallel to that, try to open up your GitHub account. Everyone, try to open up your GitHub account, by the way.
So, inside, what we are going to do, so we are going to push our code into a GitHub.
Right? We are going to push our code into a GitHub, and once we'll be able to push our code into a GitHub.
So, we are going to… attach those code.
Inside a render, and that will be deployed. So, first, you have to push your code into a GitHub, and then from a GitHub.
We will be able to deploy it. So now, to push something into a GitHub.
It's very simple, right? It's very simple. So anyone, guys, from a group who have not done even a single check-in into a GitHub, anyone?
Yeah? Okay, so basically those who are saying me no, or I don't have, I haven't used it, right?
It simply means that they have not gone through a Python lecture.
Okay. This is what I wanted to know.
So, okay, not an issue. So basically, uh, those who are new, right? So, GitHub is basically our platform, so where you can try to push your code, right? And eventually, whenever you are going to do a deployment, basically, majority of cloud platform, whenever you will go and do a deployment. So.
You have to, like, basically attach your GitHub ID or GitHub account, and from a GitHub repository itself, it will be able to.
Uh, pull your code, and then it will be able to do a deployment. And going forward, so when we are going to perform our CI-CD operation, so continuous integration and continuous deployment operation, so even at that point of a time, so we'll show you that how continuously you will keep on checking our code, you will keep on merging your file.
Resolving your conflict, and then automatically, it will keep on deploying on your server. But that's a long story. That will come in a picture after maybe 2-3 months of time.
Not now. Uh, so those who is not having a GitHub account, so please, uh, try to search GitHub on, uh, Google.
This is, again, one time, but we are going to use it throughout the lecture, throughout the class.
And like I said, please try to spend some time this week, at least, on my Python lectures.
Yeah? Github is free, yes, it's completely free, at least for now.
I mean, like, not for everyone, for organization, you have to pay, I think, $6 per, uh, no, $4 per user.
Fine? So just try to create a GitHub account so that you will be able to push a code, and as a techie, guys, one thing let me tell you.
If you are not having a GitHub account, if you are not having a LinkedIn account.
Please go and create. I know all of us have, uh, Instagram account or a Facebook account, but as a professional.
You must have, and you should have a LinkedIn account, and you should have a GitHub account.
And please try to activate yourself in both the places, because in both, like, GitHub account and LinkedIn account is going to build a credential.
Build authenticity, basically, for you. Start posting something on a LinkedIn, something valuable. Maybe you are trying to learn something, right?
Posted that, okay, fine, this is something which I've explored, because there are, like, every kind of a people available on these platforms, right? So those who are beginner, those who are new, they will get attached to you, right? They will get attached towards you, and eventually.
In a year of time, not immediately, I would say, right? But in a year of time, in two years of time, so you will be having a similar kind of a connection, or maybe a followings, from the same kind of a segment, because this is how all the social media is going to work, right? And when you are going to, like, you know.
Distribute, or when you are going to upload, or when you're going to post something good, something, like, genuine. So, obviously, people are going to like it, people are going to appreciate it, and these are the same people.
Who will help each other? I've seen, like, people are using LinkedIn, right? And they, straightforward, they go and they try to ask for the referral, they're straightforward, they go and they try to ask for maybe some sort of a recommendation, jobs, or something, right?
Believe me, no one is going to help you out. No one means literally no one. If you have an authenticity, if you have built your credentials, right, if you are good in terms of providing content.
People will reach out to you automatically. Saying that, okay, fine, so, like, I'm looking for this kind of a person, that kind of person, I've had this kind of work, that kind of a work, right?
So, build your authenticity, and majority of people fails over there. In today's world.
Personal branding is important, and believe me, maybe you will not realize it now.
But in next 5 years, all of you are going to realize. I know a lot of people, right? And even in our group itself, we have a lot of people.
So, whose experience is maybe, like, a 15-year, 20-year? But they have not built any kind of a social credentials.
They have not built any kind of a followings, they have not built any kind of connections. Now.
After some time, obviously, you will face challenges, because. After 15 years of experience into our industry.
You can't say that I will go and I will apply for the job, right? Majority of job comes from the referral. Majority.
I will say 90% of the job that people used to get.
After 15-20 year is from referral, just from a referral. If someone knows you, someone will refer you.
And how someone is going to know you in this… in… like, whole world. Obviously, with your work, right?
That's the best way to introduce yourself. So if you have to introduce yourself, showcase your work, and keep on showing it continuously. That is going to build a credential, and believe me, that is going to give you an amazing return, amazing means, literally amazing, amazing return.
Right? Start doing it. From today itself. It's a time now.
So, fine, let me share my screen once again. Uh… So, just… I believe all of you have logged in into a GitHub. Those who, uh…
Had not, uh, LinkedIn, uh, sorry, not LinkedIn. So those who didn't have a GitHub account, so I believe they are able to create it. Yes, everyone?
Yeah? Github account? Again, it will take 2-3 minutes of time to create a GitHub account.
Pardon? So, once you are able to create a GitHub account, and those who are trying to push a code for the very first time, right, for the very, very first time inside a GitHub account.
You have to do a small setup, right? You have to do a small setup. What kind of a setup?
So go to Google for the first-time user of the GitHub into a system.
So, git, and then download. So, you have to basically search for Git Download, and you will be able to reach out to the official, uh, like, a page of Git Download, and here, let me ping you this link, get download link.
So, link is available in your chat, you can check this out.
So here, there is a Mac, Windows, and Linux. For all machines, it's given to you. So, let's suppose I'm using Windows, I'll click over here, and then I'll try to get for Windows x64 setup.
So, it is going to download the files for me, and then once it will be able to download a file for me, I'll simply click over here. It's a very simple download, right? Very simple download.
So, I'll just click over here, and then I'll try to… Click, click, click, install. And within 2-3 minutes, it will be able to install. It's a very, very lightweighted file. And then close your VS Code, open up once again. Or maybe you can open up your command prompt.
And then I'll show you. Check your version.
So, just do this. I have already pinned you a link, guys, so please try to, uh, you know, go to this location.
Get a download, and as per your system, so whatever system that you are using, whether it's a Mac, Linux, or Windows, so please try to do a very, very quick installation.
Because without this, you will not be able to push a code inside a GitHub repository in which you have signed up.
Git must be available. So, Git is basically an open source project. It's an open source, like, a tool.
And this GitHub is nothing but… it's a proprietary one, which belongs to a GitHub organization, as organization. Unlike GitHub, there is something called as BitBucket, GitLabs, so there are so many, like, other organizations.
Technically, they maintain the code, they help you out in terms of marrying the entire repository, a codebase, a large base, right?
Uh, but under the hood, they're using that Git.
Yep. What is the path variable that we should use? Just go with the default one.
Right? So, once you are able to install, just to, like, confirm that whether Git is available inside my system or not.
So maybe you can come to a command prompt and write git. If you are able to see something like this, it simply means that Git is available.
Yeah? If you're not able to see, like, command not found or something like this, it simply means that system is not able to recognize your Git.
And in that case, you have to set the path, which is very rare. Nowadays, all softwares are giving you a default.
Like a path configuration. Done, everyone? Are we able to install Git?
I'll wait, and again, so, from next class onwards, we'll not do these things.
We need it, but we'll not do it. So that, like, you know, we can save some time.
Okay, Git is not recognized internal signal command. So, first of all, install, and then try to set the path.
Done, everyone? Yeah?
Okay. Done, done, done. And those who are facing an issue come to a doubt clearing right after the class. I'll fix some of the issues.
How to check if Git is installed? I have already shown you, so where is your attention, Selva?
So, just open up a command prompt and type, uh, get DIT git. This is how you will check.
Sir, can you go a little bit fast? Not now. I think in a future lectures, but not now, because… Everyone is not on the same page.
But yeah, everyone will be very soon, I know.
Okay, git installed, fine, that's cool. So Git is installed, just close your VS Code once.
And then open it once again, because sometimes it will not be able to recognize because of the catcher issue, so it will be able to recognize it. Now, we had this file, guys, we had our testing.py file, and we had already created a requirement.txt file. Now, what I have to do, I have to push this code, a code which is available in my local system, to a GitHub.
Right? To our GitHub. That's the reason, so we were talking about GitHub, right? So, to a GitHub.
So the flow is very simple. Uh, what we are going to do, so basically, we are going to…
Push our codebase, whatever is available in my local.
So, whatever is available in my local. I'll try to push it inside a…
Github, which is nothing but a code repository, right, repo, and then from GitHub.
So I'm going to call it inside a… render cloud.
Cloud. So this is the step that we are going to follow, so from local to GitHub to a render. So let's do it. Github is ready. Render, we are able to log in.
And in my local, I have already tested each and everything. So all these three components are ready, right? All these three components are ready. My local testing is done.
Github, I'm able to log in, I'm able to do an installation, and then render, I'm able to do a sign-up. So these are the base, these are the base.
Now, we are, like, good to go with the, uh, pushing a code into a GitHub. So, let's push a code from local to a GitHub. How? Let me show it to you.
Yeah? So, once you have a GitHub account, click on your profile, the corner one.
Right? Right-hand side, upper corner. So just click over here. You will be able to see your repository option. Are you able to see it, guys?
Yes? Are you able to see it? So, just click on your profile tab, the icon, right, and here you will be able to see your repository. So click on your repository.
Click it, yeah? So, click on your repository, and again, every time you will do the same thing, exact same thing. So, no changes at all.
And almost in every alternate class, we are going to do a deployment. And whenever I'm going to give you challenges.
Again, you will do a deployment. Without deployment, we'll not complete even a single example.
Fine. Now, here, click on New. You must be able to see this green button, New.
Right? So click on New, and just give a repository name. So let's suppose I'm giving a repository name as an API.
Fine? So API is a repository name I'm giving. It's local to me, by the way, right? So API is a repository name. I'm not going to give anything else. Leave all the options as it is, no need to change anything. And then click on Create Repository. So, simple.
You can give your name, whatever name that you want, you can give it to it. So click on Create Repository.
Yeah? And then you will be able to find out these commands.
These commands, you will be able to find out. Now, these commands are going to help you out in terms of pushing your.
Code into a. Github repository. So here, right? So, these commands. Again, these commands are, like, only 4 to 5 commands.
You have to use, and then from the next time, only 2 or 3 commands you will have to use.
So what are the command? First of all, git init. So you have to initialize a git. Then git add. So, try to add your file into a buffer memory, or, like, a… in between.
Github and your local. Uh, technically in a local, basically. And commit means just try to send some sort of a message. Then branch means access the branch where you're trying to send your code.
And this is nothing but… this is our URL, the highlighted one. The selected one is nothing but it's a URL.
Of this repository. So here you have to push the code, right? Where? Here. Here. You have to push the code. And then push means.
Final, post it. Let's do it one by one, yeah? Let's do it one by one. So, first of all, you have to do what? So, uh, come to this side.
Come to your terminal. Uh, stop each and everything, right?
And, uh, I'm going to do git init, initialize it. First of all, yeah, initialize it.
So whatever is available inside this directory, this location, so where you are writing it in it, so it will be able to initialize it. So initialize, and color has changed.
It is able to initialize it. Now, I'm going to call git add, and then over there.
So, it is written git add redeeme.md file. So, redemme file, they are trying to add. So what I will do, I'll not try to readme.md. So, what I will do, git add dot, means whatever file which is available, dot means, whatever file is available in this directory, right? Add everything.
Simple. Add everything. Uh, so here, git add dot, hit enter. So simple, added each and everything.
No. No. So, the next one is commit. Commit means? So, you are trying to do some sort of a commit, you are trying to send some code, but you would like to write some message along with that. So that is the meaning of commitment.
So, commit. Uh, for example, you go and commit to your, like, girlfriend or boyfriend, right?
But that doesn't mean that you will get married. So, in a similar manner.
Basically, so we are doing a commit, then okay, fine, so let's keep it inside the buffer.
Doesn't mean that I'll try to push it inside the cloud, or GitHub.
Yeah? So. I don't know whether that was a good or a bad example, but yeah, this was something which came in my mind.
Okay, good to see you at double MIT. Commit hyphen M means message, yeah, hyphen M means message, by the way.
And I can write a message over here, so inside my string, so this is my… Uh, first code, yeah? This is my first code. And, uh, hit enter. So, it is… it has committed into a buffer memory. As of now, code is not available. It's in buffer now. It's in bit… it's hung in between my system and the.
Git repository, so you can think in that way. But in the repository, code is not available.
I have just committed. I have just committed, yes? So, committed which file? This file, this file, and this file. So, whatever file was available, I'm just like, okay, fine, let's do a commit.
Yep. So, it is going to do a commit. Now, once commit is done, right, once this one is done, then you have to push a code. So, where you have to push a code. So, inside a Git, there is a concept of branching, which will eventually more and more clear. So once you will get involved into it.
So, by default, there is a main branch. So, in main branch, if we try to push the code. So, git branch hyphen m.
And then main. So git branch hyphen m main. So in… so this is the location where I have to place the code.
Now, in a… what is the URL? How someone will be able to reach out to main branch?
Right? How someone will be able to reach out to main branch.
So, coming to the next code. So, git remote add origin, and this is basically a… place. This is basically a URL by which someone can reach out to the main branch. So, for every repository, it's going to be different. As you can see, API.git. So this is something that it has created.
Now copy, and then git remote or add origin. The URL. Only for the first time you have to do it, na?
So, URL has been added. Now, my system knows that where I have to send the code, whatever code that I have committed, right?
Till commit, everything is going to happen in local, then we are trying to add the global environment, or Git, you can say, right? So now my system knows that, okay, fine, so I have to send this particular code in this location, in this Git repository. So this is how?
System will get to know that, okay, fine, so I have to send a code over there. And then, finally.
So, push origin main, right? So, what… the origin that you have added, the main origin, so over there, git push.
So, push the entire code, so this is the final step, and it will push, as you can see.
Uh, it has pushed, right? It has pushed all the code, and here, if you will come and if you will try to refresh it, right, if you'll try to refresh it.
You will be able to see all the code.
Yes, everyone?
Uh, unable to do auto-direct email address, just add it. So, it is giving you this error, right? Git config global user email, right? So, instead of writing… so just copy that one.
And, uh, wherever you are getting U at the rate, example.com, try to put your email ID.
Simple. And in your name, try to put your name. For some of you, it is going to give this kind of issue.
Email issue is all right? Yeah, this is, uh, some of you are going to see that issue.
In other aspects, the reference peak main doesn't match any, okay?
So, some of you are facing even this kind of an issue.
So just try to check your, like, branch name, basically. So, your branch should be always a main.
Those who are getting their source spec main doesn't match, right? So, you have written a grid.
Main this one. Just check this out.
Uh, git branch hyphen main, so after that, what to do? Okay, so after that, basically.
You have to add, you have to add, basically, your… this one.
This is what you'll get, basically, right? This is technically your Git.
So you have to add it. For example, in my case, so what I have done, so I have basically done git remote origin, git remote add origin.
This one, my URL, right? So you have to do this. Git remote add origin, and after that, push.
So git push hyphen U origin main. All these codes are already available. Maybe you can create… go and create a new repository, and then you can check that out.
Right. They used to list all the commands, so you don't have to even remember.
Sayal Bakruddin, I think you are using your companies, or maybe some other repositories, that's the reason it's looking for the authentication. In this way, such as token.
Uh, just use your private, uh, GitHub account.
Yep. Okay, so now, guys, uh, we are… most of us are able to push the code. I think… I know some of you will face the issue, uh, which, uh, anyhow, we are going to resolve it in an out-clearing, right?
So, no, code is available inside my GitHub repository, so till this point, I'm able to do it.
So, from local to GitHub. This is done, right? Now, render.
So let's go over there, and let's see, so what kind of an issue we are going to face with respect to render. So, here, we'll come to render, right? We'll come to render.
Uh, now this code is available, I can see. Uh, this is unnecessary code, demo.ipuinv file. This was not required, technically, but I have pushed this code as well.
Uh, that's okay. That's completely fine, right? Now, also, I can try to, like, create an application over here inside a render.
So here, I can try to click on New, or maybe add new. It's completely fine. So click on New.
And once you are going to click on New. Or maybe once you are going to click on Add New, so you can try to choose a web service, maybe. Yes, web service.
So here, just try to click on a web service. And then, for the very first time, right, for the very first time, if you are doing it, it is going to ask you to attach your GitHub.
Right? Or maybe, like, any Git provider. So it is going to do… ask you to do a sign-up, basically.
So just try to do a sign-up, and once you are going to do a sign-up over here, it is going to show all the repositories. So, let's suppose I have a 34 repository in this GitHub account, right? And just now, I have created this one, API repository.
Where I have pushed my code, a new code. So, it is showing me all of my reports.
Fine days? Yeah? Repeating once again. Click on New, or maybe add new.
Click on Web Service, right? So once you are going to click on web service, web service always.
Right? Second option. So once you are going to click on Web Service, you will come on this particular page. Now, if you are coming here for the very first time, it is going to ask you to attach your GitHub.
Click, and then attach the same GitHub account. It will be able to render all your.
Like a repository. Let's suppose I have a 10, 20, hundreds of repository, it will be able to render. So just give authorization.
That, okay, fine, so you are authorized to access my GitHub account.
So give our authorization, and now, once you will be able to give the authorization, then.
Basically, it is, like, going to show you all the repository.
Yes? All the repository. Fine, so many of you are saying, yes, you are able to see all the repository. Repo should be public? No, it is private. You are authorizing it, right? So even private repository will be able to access.
Yes? You're authorizing it. Technically, you are authorizing it, means you are bypassing your password and authentication, so even private and public, it will be able to list down.
So you can keep your repo private as well. No need to, like, keep it public. Okay, fine, cool. So here, my API repository, which I have created just 5 minutes back, right, so, which is, like, been shown over here. So just try to select this API, right?
So what is the repository name? Api. Fine, it is able to select automatically. And select means what? Source code. It will be able to pull all the source code.
Into this machine, the render machine that we have, right? So in the render machine, it will be able to pull all the source code, as you can see. So, source code, it will be able to access from where? From here. It will be able to access it.
Now, language. So, which language you have used, basically? So, Python, right? So, okay.
Keep it as it is, Python. Fine? If you are using some other language, maybe a node, maybe a Go, maybe Elixir, maybe a Docker.
Container, you are trying to use Ruby or Rust, so you can go ahead with that, but as of now, it's like a Python, okay? So, I'll select Python, which is a default one. In the which branch you have a code, so if you'll go over here, what is the branch that you are able to see? It's a main branch, right?
Going forward, as we'll move, so you will learn a lot in terms of, like, a branching, forking, and then merging the branches, conflict resolution. All of those things you will be able to learn, but as of now, where my code is, in which branch.
In a main branch, right? As you can see, here itself. So, in a main branch. Going forward, I'll even show you.
That how in a same branch, you can keep backend and front-end, and then separately you can deploy a backend, separately you can deploy a frontend, because this is what we do.
Even in real life, this is what we do. But as of now, I should not, like, think much about it. So just, like, do it. So here, main branch, and by default, main branch will be selected.
Right? By default, main branch will be selected. As simple as that. Now.
All these things are default. We are not, like, changing anything. If you would like to change the name, you can do it. Like, it is not going to harm you.
But yeah, you can leave it as it is. Now, build a command. So, build a command means, so whenever it is trying to spin the machine.
Whenever it is trying to allocate our resources. So, what kind of a setup it is supposed to do?
Means, what kind of an installation it is supposed to do. So, if you remember, so we have attached what? We have attached requirement.txt file, and by default, it will give you this, right? By default. So, we have attached what? We have attached requirement.txt file, and what we have mentioned inside it?
The installation, right? So, let's suppose for my project, FastAPI and UBCON is required, yeah? For my project, FastAP and UVicon is required. So, I've already mentioned this, FastAPI and UVCon.
Yes, everyone? So I've already mentioned this FastAPI and UVCon over here. So, by default, what it will do, when it will try to spin the machine, start the machine for you, for your project, right? It will try to do the installation. Let's suppose I have mentioned maybe 10, 20, hundreds of libraries.
So, in that machine, the instance, the resource which it is going to allocate inside a machine. So, in that one, it will try to install each and everything that you have mentioned over here.
This is the meaning of this one, yes? Okay. Now, a start command. So, let's suppose we have, like, done… it is able to prepare the machine, your code is available.
Now, when we have to start. Means when we have to launch the application. So what is the command that we have given, guys?
Yeah? So what is the command that we have given?
It's like a Docker image. No, Docker image is a different option. I'll show you going forward what is Docker. So basically, we have given, like, someone is saying nothing, how we have given nothing. So what is the start command for us in our local system? How we have launched the application?
So it was a UVicon, right? So UVCon, and then file name, and then, like, an app, and then, like, uh, something like this we have given, right? Okay. So, maybe… maybe I can try to give the same thing. So, UVCon.
Uvcon over here, right? And then, maybe. We can try to give something like this, so…
Here. Our app name is… my file name is testing, T-E-S-T-I-N-G, testing.
So, testing app hosts this on port number, this one. So, over here, you can try to define.
This. I have just pinged you. Change your file name. Your file name and my will must be different, right? Or maybe might be different.
So, just change your file name. Myfilame is testing, so you just have to change your file name, host and port number is going to be.
Like, same.
Yeah? Port and host is called… zero means you are allowing traffic from everywhere. This is the meaning of this one, 000.
Port number you can change. You can maybe 10,001, 8001, 3000 series, 6000 series, whatever you want, you can just… like I tried to give it.
Yeah? Can I give a multiple command? No. For one server, obviously, there will be only one entry point, right?
There'll be only one entry point. So, this is the entry point.
Fine. So, this is the command, guys, I have already pinged you inside your chat box, uh, just change, just change this, uh, like, uh, file name. My file name is testing.
And hope by this time we all understand this part. So my file name is testing, whatever file name that you have, just give that file name. And then for hobby project, select this free.
Yeah? So it is free, otherwise it is going to charge you. So it is free.
Uh, now, so… You don't have to do anything. Click on deploy the web services, and if everything is going to work fine.
You will be able to see a deployment in some time, and if there will be an error, you will be able to see an error as well. So now it has started deploying, so first of all, what it will do, it will clone it from the GitHub. As you can see, inside this, uh… log that it is trying to pull the.
Code, first of all. So, from a GitHub, it is connecting, it is trying to pull the code, and then one by one, uploading in 3 seconds.
A building, so build successful. Immediately, right? So, it's a very lightweighted project. So, immediately, just in a fraction of a second, it is able to build it. In some of the projects, it is going to take some time.
Running UVCon test app host, this, this, this, at a port number 10,000. Okay, that's amazing, right? So… And within a fraction of a second, you can see that I'm able to get a live. Are you able to see live, guys?
Are you able to see live this, this one? Yeah?
So, this app is live. This app is live means whatever was working in my local.
Now it's global, yeah? Now it's global, technically, and it's live. Now, in my local system, the URL was… local, host, column.
Whatever port number that I have given, right? This was the URL, basically.
Yes, this was the URL, total URL, right? Now here, this is the URL.
This is the URL. Simple, which is a global one, which is a HTTPS URL, yeah? So now, let's go ahead and test it, that whether it's working or not.
So here, right. So, everything is live, everything is up and running in a fraction of a second. Now, if I'm going to hit this URL.
The URL which I'm able to see. So, okay, that's cool. Now, slash, if I have to use a Swagger UI.
Because the fast API, right? So DOCS, the way we were doing it in a local.
Local host port number. Similarly, I have a URL, which is a global one.
And, uh, I'm able to get my put and delete on this URL.
Yeah? Now you guys can even try this out. My URL, because now it's global.
Because on cloud now. Doing it first time, this is excellent, I'm 100% sure I will be learning a lot of things in ex- a lot. I mean, like, we have not even started properly.
Believe me, I'm still, like, trying to give our classes where we are building a base.
Yes? So now my entire backend, this is called as backend deployment, there is no UI, right? So basically, we have deployed our APIs. Now, anyone can consume this API.
I can test this API in any way I want. From a postman, from this Swagger UI, from the curl command. Anyone can call your this… this is the API, guys. This is the API.
Right? The live API we are able to see. And we know the route, right? So let's suppose if I have to access maybe a update user, right, we know the route, this is the route, so this URL.
This URL slash userDb slash data slash v1 slash update pass the user ID.
Done, right? If I have to delete something. Do the same thing. If I have to perform some sort of a GET or POST operation that we have done yesterday.
Do it, because now we understand what is a route. Right? Now they understand what is the route, how we can try to pass the data, uh, like, how… what is the meaning of a body, how… what is the meaning of passing a data through a URL. Now we understand all of these things, and that, too.
Now, my API is global.
Simple application hosted in cloud. Yeah, so whatever is running on my local system, now it's live, that's it.
Nothing much? Yes, everyone?
I can see that it has changed to HTTPS. Yeah, so now it's live and global and public, right? So now it become HTTPS secured one.
Yeah, so are we… are we able to do it, guys? How many of you are able to do it? How many of you are able to see your Swagger UI live?
And you all are able to get the URL. Now, let me enable a chat to everyone.
Working for me, done, I'm done, okay, fine. Uvcon command, or UVI, C-O-R-N command not found. So maybe you have not done a…
Like, uh, kept Uicon here. Maybe you are not keeping UVicon inside your requirement.txt, so it will not be able to find out, because it was not able to install.
Okay, so for most of you working, could not open the requirement files.
There are no such 5 directory, REQUIREME NTS dot TXD. Yeah, so if you don't have a file, then that's an error. So try to push that particular file.
Try to push a requirement.txt. Can't we use a reload option on render? See, what is the meaning of reload option? First of all, tell me.
The meaning of load option was very simple, that whenever you are… let's suppose you have already executed a UBCON command, means your API is up and running. Now, in between, you are making some changes.
So whenever you will do CTRL-S, it will try to refresh the entire API, so that new changes, it will be able to adopt.
In a cloud, it's not required. In a cloud, so, if you're going to push some code, so basically we go ahead with the.
Restart service, or deploy the latest commit. This option we have, right? Deploy a latest commit. And yeah, I can see all the hits, so, like, so many people are trying to hit my API, and I can see all the hits over here.
So many people, see? 200, 200, 200, 200, 200.
So we are, we are able to get the hits.
It's live now, sir, yes. Amazing.
If you can show one more time connecting render to a GitHub, it's, again, nothing, so click on New, click on Web Services, right, and then here, if you're connecting for the very first time, so it is, it is going to give you an, uh, like, a link over here, right? So, let's suppose, uh, this is the one, right? So, this one.
So, just click over there. It'll try to pop up the window to give you the authorization, give the authorization, done. Only this much. Two clicks.
Can we neglect NGRock with this approach? See, ngrock is basically a port forwarding solution. So, if something is working in your local, still it's in local, right? It's still local. Once your system will go off.
Let's suppose if you are going to shut down your system.
It will be off. But now this is a cloud. It will keep on running, up and running, even if I'm going to shut down my system.
My APIs now will be up and running, even if I'm going to shut down my system, because now there is no dependencies.
There is no linkage with my local system. Whereas in case of NGRock, if you're going to shut down your laptop.
It's gone. So that was our testing solution, by the way. So where you can try to, you know, do a port forwarding, means.
Whatever is running in your particular port, you are just exposing it to the outer world.
So that was not a deployment solution, that was a port-forwarding solution.
Which generally we use at the time of testing.
Now, get and post user in this file. What is the package file is necessarily? No, not necessary.
Fine, guys, done.
Can you teach us Docker also? Yeah, I will… I will be, like, doing… I'll be converting some of the application into a Docker, and then I'll show you how to deploy the Docker.
I have already done that. If you'll go and check my other lecture, right?
Uh, whatever you're asking, it's already done. All those lectures are already available, but yeah, even in your class, it's just the live classes will be done.
Fine. So now, successfully, guys, successfully, we are able to deploy our application on.
Render. Although it was a very small one, just API. But I believe we are able to get some sort of a confidence, right guys?
So GitHub, render. Local API testing, meaning of APIs.
Put, get, post, delete. You know?
So, now, at least we are, like, familiar with a couple of things, right? Will render also having a database hosting connected with API access, so render will not give you a direct database, like, options, by the way, so you have to… like, uh, go ahead with some external database and connect it inside the code.
This platform is great, also support our auto-deploy without configuring, yeah.
Now, most of the platforms, deployment-wise, it's, like, almost same. Like, they are giving you, uh, best possible services, where within 2-3 clicks, you will be able to do the deployment.
And then whenever you're going to make changes into a code, it will call the auto-deployment, right? It will try to call the auto-deployment. So most of the platforms are like that nowadays.
So it's not difficult, basically. It's just a one-time game, so if you're able to do it once, in one platform, you will be able to do it again and again and again.
Okay, so, uh, now, this part is done, and our API is live, and you can test the API, use curl, use Postman, use URL, use Python.
Whatever you want, just use it, right? So we know that testing now, and we understand all of these things. We understand the fundamentals.
Now, coming to the next part, guys. So, as we are able to do a deployment, closing this entire thing.
Right? Closing this entire thing, and now… Let's come to… you're on, yeah? Now come to Yuri API.
So now we understand the meaning of APIs. So, hopefully, you all will be able to understand that how Yuri API is going to work.
So, let me give you a complete introduction about the Yuri API. So, see.
Uh, we have a chat solution, right? We have a chat solution, Yuri.
So, which is same as your… any other chat solution in a market.
Where you can ask a question, it will be able to give you the answer. You will be able to even upload images.
You will be even upload a speech over here. You can do even a real-time web search, so just click over here, select it, and then real-time web search. You will be even able to execute a code.
A basic one, basically, so you don't have to copy and paste into some IDs. Here, itself, you will be able to execute the code.
You will be able to upload any kind of files or even screenshot directly from here itself, Capture option. So, we have given you all those options, and you will be able to even share. So, let's suppose you are doing some research, and.
You would like to share this entire page. Let's suppose I have done this research, like, something like that, and I would like to basically, like, share this entire information. So I have this share option as well. So, without login.
People will be able to copy this link, and people will be able to.
Like, share it with everyone, right? And recently, GPT-5 model has been released, which I say it's an umbrella model, so we have attached GPT-5 as well. I still like 4 and 4.0 and 4.1, uh, because it's just an umbrella model, so it is trying to make a decision automatically that which.
And, yeah, the best part is that it is trying to do some sort of a research before it, but… I believe it's, like, a combination of previous model. It's not a new one that they have trained, but yeah, that's a claim that they're trying to make, so let's not get into that discussion. So, here you will be able to share. So, this is basically a URI system, which has been given to you, so that.
It will be able to fulfill a need of AI, because some platform is giving you free, some platform is going to give you a charges, some is charging $20, this, that, blah blah, right? And user gets confused.
We have created a unified platform, one place, access whatever you want.
Right? Whatever you want. You are looking for Google's, like, deep search, do it. You are looking for real-time web search? Do it. You are looking for image generation? Do it.
Code interpretation, do it, right? In the exact same way. You're looking for everything, everything will be done.
So this is where Yuri comes into a picture, where we have basically hosted some of the model on our own.
And we are using some of the proprietary API. For example, GPTs, right? 5 and 4.0.
4 Series and 5 Series. So basically, this is a proprietary model.
Now, we can't access our model directly, we have to access through an API. So, we have integrated through an API. Whereas this Llama, DeepSeek, right, these are the open source model, weights are already available. On Hugging Face, weights are available on Ullama, weights are already available.
So, those models we have deployed on our instances, and then we are hitting our… whenever you are going to select Llama, or maybe some other, so it is hitting our instances where we have deployed.
Right? Where we have deployed. Now, if you would like to know more about this deployment and how it is going to happen.
So, I don't know whether you have gone through those videos or not, so I have published those videos in your group yesterday itself.
And, uh, even Dave Forrester days, right? So, where I have shown you that how you will be able to deploy the model. It's always a very simple approach, you know, very simplistic way, I have, like, shown that. And Dave Forrester days, so I have basically, like, even shown you that how you will be able to deploy this kind of a UI. So, if you're interested, go with that, but yeah, I'm just trying to talk you, talk about the…
Behind-the-scenes mechanism, that how these things are all actually working, right, in a layman way.
No. So this is one part, right? Where you will be able to come and you will be able to chat. The another part inside Euron is our API ecosystem. Now.
So, from next class onwards, without this API, you will not be able to build even a single system in generative AI.
Generate EVI simply means that you need an access of LLMs. Doesn't matter if you are learning here, you are learning somewhere else.
Doesn't matter at all. You need an API access, right? You need an API access. Now, to get those API access, because sometimes you need OpenAI access, sometimes you need Gemini, sometimes you need a Llama, sometimes you need for API access for embedding, sometimes you need API access for image generation, sometimes you need API access for a text-to-speech.
There are a lot, right? There are a lot, and there are different, different kind of a use cases into a generative AI.
And without LLM, not even a single, believe me, not even a single application, not even a smallest one, you will be able to build in a generative AI.
Without a LLM access, because generative guy is all about LLMs, actually.
Right? All about LLMs. So this is… and, like, students used to go here, used to go there, some APIs are free, some of them are giving you a little bit of free credit, and then you have to, like, go for the payment.
Now, here, we have created this entire ecosystem where everything is sorted. Everything is sorted means literally everything is sorted. Now, what is sorted? Let me talk about that.
You are looking for some API from OpenAI, right? A different, different model, even 5, GPT-5, latest one, which was released just 2 days, 2 days back, right? You have an access.
Oss 20 billion, OSS 120 billion. Which was open sourced recently, right? So, even that is available embedding, that is available.
So from OpenAI, it's available. From Google, it's available. You have an access of real-time web search model as well, inside of Google.
Right? Real-time web search model as well. Gemini embedding model as well. Now.
So, if you're looking for some APIs accessed from a meta.
Llama series, that is also available, right? Llama series, from a deep-seq.
Chinese model, that is also available. Alibaba, this is also a Quinn model available. Mistral, this is also available. So, all famous ones, all famous ones. Black Forest Lab, basically, this has been used for a, like, a generating.
Images, so this is available at play.ai for, like, a TTS, text-to-speech.
So this is also available. So, all of these models, which you need for sure, and without that, you will not be able to do any kind of application in a generative AI, not even the smallest one.
It's already available, and it's already sorted for all of you, so that you will be able to build any kind of MVPs, you will be able to build any kind of POCs, and any kind of a product.
And then you can deploy it, because all of these are live for 24x7.
Right? So, going for… so all of these model series, we are going to use it, one by one, one by one, one by one.
Right? But to use it. You need an access. So now we understand API, right? Now we understand API. Now, whatever API that we have created.
So, we were having just an endpoint, right? Ender point. So, some URL.
By which I will be able to access. Here to access your model, you have to give an API key.
Means to access model, you are accessing model means what? So let's suppose I had a model. I have kept it on my platform, and there is a function I have created.
So, whenever you are hitting my model, you are trying to pass some values, right, that give me this data, give me that data, tell me about data science, something like this, right? When you're trying to pass as a data, as an input.
So, this is going to get into my function. My function is trying to give an input into a model. Now, my function is trying to give a return, and that return you will be able to see.
I believe that's a core philosophy behind API. Right, everyone? That's a core philosophy behind API, right?
This is something that we have… we are discussing since yesterday's class.
Now, that you will give the input. A payments what? So, there is some function sitting on some server or some machine. You will give an input, it will try to execute that function, and eventually that function is doing what? That function is trying to load a model. If you're trying to call, maybe, an OpenAI model, maybe a Mistral model, maybe a Lama model.
So that function is trying to basically put that data. Uh, into that model, model is giving me response, right? So, function will give a return, and that return, as a user, I will be able to see.
That's a core philosophy, that's a whole idea. Now, to access that function.
You'll need an API key, because we have, like, a secured it, right? We have… without authorization, you will not be able to access it. How to create an API key?
So, it's very simple, just one click, fraction of a second, you will be able to create a API key over here, just like any other international platform, right?
On single API key, only one API key you need. And you will be able to access all the series of models. So it's not like you have to come and create an API again and again and again. You can create multiple, that's okay, right?
But only one. So, click a Create an API key, give any kind of a name, XYZ, right? And this API key will be created, you can copy it, and now you can use it.
And this API key, you will be able to use it for all the model.
Right? This API key, you will be able to use for all the models. You can even delete it, right?
Now, so let's suppose. Here, I have given you one example, right? Here we have given you one example. A curl, now we all understand curl, we can try to use the same thing even in a… like a postman, right? So, this is, let's suppose, a curl which is given to me. Now, what is the meaning of this curl? Let me explain it to you. Yesterday, I think I have explained, but let me explain it to you once again.
So, what is the meaning of this curl? So, curl… means command to execute some URL, post, so we understand the post method, basically. So, basically, method is basically POST.
And we are trying to hit this URL. Hit this URL means what? At this place, my function is available.
This is the meaning of this URL, right? And this function that you are trying to execute, it needs a header. It needs a header. What kind of a header? So, inside a header, you have to pass your API key. So, you have to replace this.
With the ape, sorry, my bad. So, you have to basically replace this.
With the API key that you have created. So, this API key that you have created.
Because it's an authorization. So, here you have to replace this particular part with this one.
Fine? You have to replace this one with this one. And then, hyphen D, hyphen D means what?
You are calling a POST request. So, you are sending a data as a body.
What data you are trying to send, what input you are trying to send into your function. So this is the input that you are sending into a function.
So you are sending, basically, two things, two parameters. One is a message, another one is a model.
That, okay, so this is the message, right, and this is the model. So, this model, you are supposed to hit.
So this is technically a model ID. Now, here, so if I would like to use some other model ID, I will be able to use it. I'll show it to you. So, GPT-5 runner 2045, this is the recent model.
So just call it, and then, just like we do a curl light, command prompt, let's try to open up the command prompt.
And from a command prompt, let's hit it. And let's see… Yeah. So, see, I'm able to get some output, right?
I'm able to see… get some output, so content was hello, and it has given me some response, so message roll, assistance, this content.
And it is, uh, giving me higher there's knowledge, so something like this, right? So, it is, it is telling me hi there.
So I'm able to get the response, right? I'm able to get the response. Now, if I'm going to change my content, I'm going to say that, tell me about, uh, Gen AI.
Fine, Ctrl-C. And then, hit again. It will be able to hit my model, and then it will be able to give me the response.
Okay? So, here I'm able to… Rural assistance, content, content is equal to blank, finish reason, length, okay, user's prompt token. So, it is not able to give me any kind of a.
Content, by the way.
Yeah, content is blank, it is showing me. Now, let me replace this model with some other model. So… This is… 4.1, let me replace this.
With OpenAI. Maybe?
4.1 nanomodel. So, with this GPT-4.1 hyphen nanomodel.
4.1. Nano?
So this is the model ID. So now I'm hitting this model, basically, right?
And again, same question, tell me about Gen AI. Now it is able to generate some sort of a long context, right? Long output it is able to generate, and this is called as inferencing.
Right? So here, message role assistance content. Now, content-wise, it is giving me this one. Certainly, generative AI refers to a subset of the artificial intelligence focused on creating a new content, such as text, images, audio, video.
So it is giving me a very, very long, like, information about this entire thing, like, about these entire things. It is able to give it to me.
And, uh, this is called as inferencing. When you send some data, when you ask some question, right, and when model is going to give you a response, so that part is called as inferencing.
So we are able to inference with one of my model. Now, let's suppose if I have to do an inferencing with respect to other models, right, I can do it. Now, so here we have a category of the model.
For example, now, so API key is fine, we are able to create. Now, come to the users part.
So, whatever model you are hitting, and whatever token it is going to consume, you will be able to track that particular part. Model statistics.
You will be able to track. So, which model you are trying to hit, and if you are going to receive some error, so you will be able to track your error as well.
Right? Logs-wise, so you will be able to see that, okay, fine, so I have just now, recently, I have hit, like, a 4.1. Before that, I was hitting this model.
This model 2 times, right? Everything, just like any other international platform, you will be able to see it. And this was the content which was returned.
Right? This was a response which was returned, so you will be able to see your response as well, that what was the response you have received.
Before that, the content was empty, so yes, it's empty. So everything you will be able to track, everything you will be able to log.
Just like anything, right? Just like a true API. Now, we have given you an endpoint.
Now come to the endpoint. Let's suppose I would like to generate the image, right? I would like to generate the image, yeah? So, to generate the image, we have given you another URL. See, we have given you multiple endpoints. Chat completion.
So now we understand the endpoint, by the way. We all understand what is the actual meaning of the endpoint. So, whenever you are going to call this endpoint.
Chad completion function will be called. Whenever you're going to call embedding endpoint. So, embedding function will be called.
I believe we all understand this part, right guys? Meaning of endpoint?
You know? So when I'm going to call. Basically, this, uh, chat completion.
We know that a function which is going to, like, give me chart completion, that will be called.
Embedding? So, embedding function will be called. Audio-to-speech, that will be called.
Imagination, that will be called. So now we understand, we all understand the endpoint, the meaning of endpoint. So now these lines are not, uh, alien to me.
Right? We all understand this entire thing, that, okay, fine, so what… will happen in our backend.
So now it's not like a black box for any one of us, by the way. Okay, that's cool. Uh, now… So, let me show you how to generate an image through an API.
Through a chat, you can do it, but through an API. So, let's suppose this is my image generation endpoint. Curl is given to me, right? I can convert this curl in any language code. I think I have already shown you yesterday, so just copy it, and then, like, uh, you know.
Try to say that, okay, give me the Python equivalent, it will be able to give the Python equivalent. Now, here.
Right? So here, this is my curl. Now, let me attach an API key.
Alright, so API token, I have to attach. So maybe I can go to Yuri API?
Api keys, create a new one, anything. And copy it. So…
Here, your API token, I just have to replace this one.
And the point is already given, and then data. What data I'm sending to generate this image? A prompt. A beautiful sunset over a mountain. This is the prompt. Maybe I can try to, like, send something innovative, that's completely fine.
If you want, right? And, uh, model, so Black Forest, this model I'm going to use. This model is already available. So, this model, I'm going to use it.
And, uh, number of image is equal to 2. Size, you can try to manipulate. If you want an image with a different size, you can do it.
Quality Standard or HD. Again, you can try to change. The smallest format in a URL, or if you want, it will try to give you even…
As a downloadable format, StyleVivid. Now, just copy it.
And uh… do the curl. Clear my screen, do the curl. Hit enter.
And wait for some time, yeah? So wait for some time. So this is the URL it is able to return, guys. This is the URL it is able to return, yeah? So this function is returning the URL. Now, if you will go and check this URL.
Now, if you will go and check this URL. That what is there at this URL?
This is my image which has been generated, right? Now, my prompt was what? My prompt was, a beautiful sunset over a mountain. Let's suppose if I'm going to change my…
Prompt. Uh… Picture of Elon.
Musk… playing… guitar. Ctrl-c.
I just have changed my plawn. Picture of Elon Musk playing guitar.
Now, this is the new URL I have received, so if I'll go and check…
Image it is able to generate. So whatever it was able to understand as an Elon Musk, it is able to generate the image, right?
So, this is how, like, uh… things is working. I can, like, give us some text, and then I can try to get something in terms of a speech.
Right? In a multiple language, with a multiple person's voice. All of these things are happening with the help of my LLM model. Chat completion, yes, I'm able to do a streaming, yes, I will be able to do embedding. Yes, I will be able to do image generation. Yes, I will be able to do.
Text-to-speech, yes, I will be able to do, and technically, for everything, we have an endpoint.
Yes? How to download the images? Simple click over here, and then download the images. Otherwise, just, like, call a Python code, which will be able to, like, uh, you know, download the images from this particular URL.
Simple. Yeah? Now, can you please showcase our text-to-speech? Obviously, I can show you text-to-speech, so let's suppose this is my text-to-speech, right? And this is the curl.
You can even do a Python code. Right? Now, this is my input, right? And this is my model which I'm going to use, and voice-wise, you can select a multiple voice. So, we have given you a parameter.
So, voice-wise, these many voices are available, by the way, yeah? And playing its Arabic voice, so Arabic is also available. So, you can choose any of these voice of your choice. We have given you all the options, right? You can try to pass any of this parameter over here.
Now, let me use my API key. And replace it over here, right?
And now, let's do a… call. So… Clear?
Hello, this is the text message, right? Hmm. Uh, 404 model does not exist…
To play AI… I don't have access, internal code…
Okay, PlayAI TTS, it's not working. Mm-mm. Let me check, uh, will…
Last time when I have tested, couple of days back, it was working.
Play ITTS, let me, uh, check my models. Black Forest Play AI, PlayAI TTS.
So… this is listed here. Text-to-speech…
Nothing much I can do, because it is not able to…
My P-L-A-Y-A-I hyphen TTS. Introduction…
P-l-a-y-a-i hyphen TDS. So… Maybe the team has kept this model down as of now, because when my last time I was testing it, so it was working, basically. So model was up, maybe.
Now, it's not up, I'll ask team to make it up, so that you will be able to hit that model, yeah? As of now, I think it's not up.
Well, no, it's not up. 404. So, model is not up as of now. I'll just ask team to, like, uh…
Keep it active. This, uh, speech-to-text model, keep it active. So they will do it, and once they will do it.
You will be able to hit it, and it is going to give you a return. Return was what? So it is going to give you a response as a URL. So, where you will be able to find out MP3.
As simple as that, right? Just like for a pictures, it is able to give you the URL. In a similar manner, it will be able to give you the URL for a MP3.
So this is how you will be able to hit any of our model. Now, not just that.
Right? Not just that. So, see, whenever you are going to use any of this framework, right, whether it's a Lang chain, whether it's a Lama indexes, whether it's a LAN graph, which is already a part of your syllabus.
Without LLMs, you will not be able to use any of this framework. Every framework requires an access of our LLMs, right? Every framework. Now, what we have done from our side.
So, we have released app SDKs. So, we have released, basically, SDKs, so if you will go to a PyPi.
You will be able to find out a Yuri AI SDK, so you just have to do a pip install Uri AI, just like you install anything else, right?
So you have to install pip install Yuri AI, that's it.
This is the only thing that you have to do, right?
And then, whether it's a land graph, langchain, small agent, LAMA indexes, crew AI, directly you will be able to use it.
And this is something that we are going to use on a regular basis.
Starting from next-to-next class onwards. Yeah? This is something that we will start using it. So, we have already released the SDK, so that your life will be even way more easier.
In terms of accessing those LLMs in any other frameworks, because.
When you try to use any kind of LLM on a framework, you have to make it compatible. Compatible with respect to that framework, and this is where this Yuri AI SDK comes into a picture, which we'll be using a lot in almost all the frameworks, like.
Starting from a Langchain, Llama Index, Langgraph, AutoGen, Crew AI, everywhere, everywhere we are going to use our Yuri AI.
Can we create our own SDKs? Yeah, you can create your own SDKs. I have already released one YouTube video, so where I'm showing you that how to create your own PyPy package and how to publish it. So, you can go and you can check that out if you.
Have to create your own SDKs. Yeah? So I've already shown that step-by-step, all of these parts, that how to create your own package, and how to publish it.
So that other people will be able to use those SDKs, or other people will be able to use that libraries, because this is something that we have written.
Uh, so initially, I have written personally the entire part, and then my team has done some sort of a modification into it.
And now, this is available. For all of us. Just do pip install URI.
Bingo.
With one API key, we can access all at the point, yes, all at the point, only one API key.
You don't have to create, like, an endpoint-wise APIs key. Just one password, and all system will be accessible.
Can we use Europe or European? You can use anywhere. We don't have any kind of issue. So, we have given you one lakh token limit per day.
So, you have, let's suppose, one year of access. It simply means that 365 lakh. Now, if you are going to.
Estimate a cost. Of 365 lakh token.
With anyone else who is providing. You will be amazed.
Just do the math. Is Yuri like a Grook? Uh, it's, uh, kind of, you can say, right? But we have, uh, Gruk has not given you this, uh, like, framework integration. They have just given you the end point.
Uh, or for a particular model. So whatever model you will be able to find out in groups, it's already available, API-wise, right? And even for chat, so we have given you a best-of-best interfacing.
The… another part is SDKs, compatibility. They are not giving you. We have done that as well.
How to convert bad quality image into a high-quality image is through the model. So nowadays, we have, like, so many platforms which have a little, maybe try to use a deli, or maybe a Sora, then try to, like, convert it.
How you are providing these many tokens hit at no price. Uh… We are providing it, we are burning money.
You can see a lot of money. It's very useful if you make unused token today, carry forward, no, that's option we are not going to give.
It's not a token bank, basically, right? It's like something that we have created so that my learner, my students, would not go to XYZ platform, attach their card, and then look for the free API, something like that, right? My students should sit peacefully, they should do the experimentation, whatever they want, the way they want.
And for that, we have created this entire ecosystem. So that there should not be any kind of a bottleneck in terms of creating an app.
Okay, fine. So, cool. Hope all of you are able to understand the Yuri API. Now we can see that how we can hit the Yuri API, right?
Uh, EA framework, all of these things, we are going to, like, discuss, so as we will progress, one by one. And so many examples we have already given to you. If you will click on these things, right?
So, so many things we have already built it for you, so that life will be pretty much easier.
Right? Liability literally easier, and you can… learn, you know, easiest possible way with fun.
There you will see the result, and you will be able to build something.
So now… I'm done with today's class, right?
And in my next class, right, in my next class, basically.
Uh, we are going to start a vector database. Basically. So we'll try to understand that why vector database is important.
Which and all vector database is available in a market? Uh, what vector database I'm going to use for what kind of a use case is.
How I will be able to do a setup. Plus, for vector database, you need one thing, which is called as embeddings.
Without embeddings, you will not be able to use a vector database. So, we'll try to teach you that what is the actual meaning of embeddings, what is the mathematics behind a top-case search, for example, a cosine similarity, or Euclidean distances, or Manhattan distances. So what is the meaning of it? How calculation actually happens mathematically?
Right, and then, in terms of programming, so how these things are going to happen, so that will be the agenda for my.
Upcoming class, which is going to be the next one, and even over there, we are going to use something called as embedding, this one.
So, we will try to create the embeddings. Then only we can try to store it inside the.
Vector database. So, theory practical, each and everything, we'll try to understand, and then we'll try to make it live. Live means?
Deploy, productionize it. So that will be the agenda for my next class.
Now, next to next week, right? Next to next week, which is technically a… 23rd, 24th, right?
So, 23rd, 24th, I'm just giving you an early announcement. 23rd, 24th, I am on leave, so I have a planned, like, uh… I have some different schedule on 23rd, 24th. So, next week, we have a class, agenda is fixed, right? And next to next week.
I'm on leave, so there will be no class, you guys can plan yourself whatever you want on that Saturday and Sunday night.
Uh, two weeks before I'm telling you, 15 days before I'm telling you these things, uh, so that you will be able to plan, so that there will not be any kind of a surprise, because I have already planned, uh, something, basically, so I will not be available.
I will be available on export. So, we will be having holiday on 23rd, 24th, that particular weekend.
I'll make an announcement in group as well, but yeah, those who have joined the class, just, uh, I'm notifying you.
So that if you are planning to create some land for you, some, like a, you know, tour or visit or something.
You can do it. So with that, guys, uh, thank you so much, and if you have any kind of a question, so please be here. Those who is not having any kind of a question, so you can drop off now.
Yeah? And, uh, one more thing, so by evening, right? By evening, so I'm going to create a homework, so by the time I'm going to upload a recording, I'm going to upload assignments as well for this class. So, whatever I have discussed, so I have to give you a lot of assignments for this entire week.
So that you all will sit, and you all will be able to solve it, and make sure, guys, that doesn't matter whether you are solving assignment with AI or you're writing a code on your own.
What I want from your side is to solve it. Touch those assignments, at least, right? Touch those assignments, because I know that if you're going to execute, and if you're able to see the result.
You will be able to understand, at least maybe a 10-20%. So, by the time I'm going to upload a video recording, technically by evening, right, because that much time it takes to convert a video into MP4 format.
Along with that, I will be attaching a assignment for this whole week.
Solve it, discuss it among yourself inside a group, as much as possible.
And, uh, then come to the class next week on Saturday. And those who are not available about a Python, please make sure that you are spending at least this week.
Enough amount of time on Core Python. Yep. So… Asayim will be fun, believe me. You will learn a lot.
You will learn more than, like, things that I'm teaching you in a class. Uh, when you're going to solve my assignments.
And going forward, challenges. Where I can find the previous segment. In whatever class I'm giving assignment, you will be able to find out in that lecture dashboard.
Simple. So, everything is structured, everything is uploaded in a lecture dashboard. Just click and get it.
So, hope you're liking it, guys, yes, everyone? Any complaints?
Like, no, this class is not going good, I'm not able to understand, I'm like… you should teach in this way, that way, something like this.
Yeah? Any complaint? Okay, guys, see, it's completely fine, you have a complaint or you don't have a complaint, but…
Whenever I'm giving assignments, please solve it. Yes? And in my class, always make sure that you are coming with, uh, coming for a hands-on.
Right? Not just what in the lecture, because I don't like that approach. Like I said, and I will keep on telling you that.
We are not preparing for the exam. We are preparing for a life.
Right? So, this practical will help you out a lot, and yes, it's true.
That, uh, initially, it will be a little bit painful. Because maybe you have not gone through those things so far, you have not gone through that particular track so far, so it's completely fine, but that pain will be gone very, very soon, believe me.
Within a couple of weeks, it will be gone, and you will be very much comfortable.
And then you will start enjoying. Then, it will not look like that you are learning something, because I know learning is tough.
Right? So… My first objective is to remove that bottleneck, where we think that I have to go and learn. No, I don't have to go and learn. I just have to go experiment, uh, build something, and then, like.
My work is done. And when you will… when you will get into that stage.
Believe me, you will enjoy. You will not feel like a pressure, you will not feel like a burden, because now you will… at that point of a time, you will start connecting the dots automatically. So I have to put you on that place.
So that, going forward, you will be able to learn anything and everything on your own. Then you don't need me.
Yeah, can you split video into two parts, actually teaching one recording part discussion? I mean, like, it's not that tough to, you know, hover till 2 hours and then 2 hours, so why you are expecting me to cut this video into two parts?
Doesn't make sense, right? One video, you know that for 2 hours, I have discussed a core topic. For last two hours, I have discussed, basically, like, uh, doubts.
Just watch till 2 hours. No one is stopping you, right?
Yeah. I mean, like, these are the unnecessary expectations, guys, and uh… for sure, I will not be able to fulfill.
Even I want… even if I wanted to. Because this is unnecessary, right? Unnecessary bottleneck, hurdles.
All those things. So, yeah. So, fine, guys, thank you so much. Those who's having a doubts, please be here. Those who is not having a doubt, thank you so much. We are done with today's class.
Uh, by evening, assignments will be available. Late evening, you can say, like, today is Sunday, so even I have some work to do.
Uh, so I'll upload assignments by late, late evening, yeah? And you have, like, whole week of time to solve those assignments.
And to discuss inside your groups. Uh, so with that. Uh, thank you so much, guys. See you in the next class. Those who is not having a doubt, those who is having a doubt, be here.
Yeah, so now, guys, uh… I'm lowering your hands.
So let me take a break for 2-3 minutes, yeah? Shall we take a break? 2-3 minutes break?
Okay, fine, I'm going on break, just, like. 2 minutes, so it's 11.023, so…
20 by 11 or 27, I will be back. And then, uh, raise your hand, and those who would like to share their screen, those who are facing any kind of issues.
Uh, with, you know, any kind of a command, code, whatever. So, just keep your screen ready. You can share your screen, and then we'll start solving your… Uh, issues in your system.
Okay, fine everyone, so I think we are back, uh… So, I can see some hands. And guys, those who would like to share their screen, right? So please ping me in our chat, so I would like to share the screen, so I'll just…
I'll move you to the panelists, by the way. Yeah?
And then I'll call out the name, one by one. So that, uh, you know, you can… Dog. So, Selvay is saying he would like to share the screen, okay?
And keep yourself on a mute, guys, understand I'm not calling your name, otherwise I'll keep you on.
Unmute. So, Silva, okay, fine, you will be joining as a panelist.
Then, uh, monies, I wanted to share the screen, okay? So… Where is my niece?
Just a minute, just a minute. I'll call out the name, and then I'm just adding everyone in the panelists, uh, to share their screen.
Pradeep, any plan to upload the video on a masterclass? I'm doing it, that's going a little bit slow, but yeah, it will be done.
Want to share the screen. Hemant is saying, fine, so Hemant, join as a panelist.
Mukesh is saying, would like to share the screen, fine, join as a panelist.
Mohit, Mohit, where is Mohit? Okay, got it. So, Mohit will be joining, Bharat Dwaj is saying…
So, find Bharatwaj. And, uh, Raman is saying, uh, Raman, where is Arman?
Okay, so Arman will be joining as a panelist. Okay. I have one quick question. Just wait, just wait. Yeah, so those who don't want to share their screen.
Uh, fine, I have just segregated the people, so those who would like to share their screen, and those.
Would like to chat. So, first of all, let's take a question from a person who would like to just chat.
Uh, yeah, Ramesh, go ahead.
Yeah. Uh, I shouldn't share. Thanks for taking session. It is, like, uh, obviously, Claire's a wonderful session today.
Thank you. I think…
So I had a couple of questions. When you explain the URI API, uh, you have sought some use cases to extract the, you know, when we pass the question.
Hmm.
We can get the response. So, are we able to, uh, retrieve the videos or audio kind of use cases?
By, uh, by using the URI API. Audio and video extractions.
Yeah, so audio we have given you. So, basically, TTS, TTS is something that we have given you as an access.
So text-to-speech, by the way. So that text-to-speech model is going to run you the URL. So, which is not downloadable URL. So, text-to-speech, you can do it, and like I've shown you, you will be able to generate the images. So, text to image.
So that is, uh, again, model that we have already attached, and endpoint we have given to you, API we have given to you.
And as I have shown it to you, that, uh, just pass, uh, any kind of a text or any kind of a prompt.
And eventually, it will be able to generate the images, and from that URL, just like, uh, write a Python code, which will pull the images out of that URL. Simple.
Okay, it's nice and all you… Yeah, what about the videos? Is there any way to extract the video?
So that is available now. A video we are not giving as of now, because video is literally, uh, expensive. Very, very expensive one. So for video, maybe you can try to use a Grook. Nowadays, Grook is giving you that option. You can try to use a VO3 from a Google, which has been released recently.
You can try to use maybe a SORA for that one. You can even try to use a deli.
So there are many other platforms, yeah, so there are many other platforms which is giving you those options, where you can upload one image, or.
Delhi, okay.
You can try to give a prompt, and out of prompt, it will be able to create the videos. And most of the prompts are giving you a very, very limited API access. They will start charging you. Because it's literally an expensive process, very expensive process.
Okay. Uh, Saran, one more question. We have the 10K token, so you told me that to provide some token.
No, you don't have 10K, you have 1 lakh. 1 lakh, actually, per day.
Uh, so what is it? So, one leg token, okay? Is there any possibilities, uh, can we get the token, um…
Or maybe do we charge, or something, no? The… we get the extra token.
I'm… I'm… yeah, so I'm planning for that, because I know if you are running some app in a production system, right? So, uh, you need more than one line. Let's suppose you have built some application which you are, like, you know.
Uh, sharing with multiple users. Maybe a commercial one, right? Commercial one, basically. So, keeping that in our mind, I'm thinking about that plan.
So, we are doing a lot of, like, a price calculation around it, because we are into EduTech, right?
That is a completely different domain, where we are selling just a token.
No.
I hope you get to my point, right? Yeah, so we are planning that how we can price it out, basically, that, okay, fine, so anyone who would like to, you know, get an access of this entire ecosystem, there is a Euron Plus, right? There is Euron Plus.
Now, beyond that, let's suppose someone is looking for more token, someone is looking for more Resume AI, someone is looking for more Avani, because as of now, we have given 3, like, uh, uh, interview per month, right? So, more Avani, someone is going to look for more YuriChat and more Yuri API token.
All of this more, right? So, we are, like, I'm working on the plan, especially on a price calculation side of it, right? That, uh, what should be the ideal price, and in that ideal price, what I will be able to offer. So.
Maybe in, like, the next couple of months, uh, we will come up with those plans as well.
But not, not now.
Yeah, yeah. Okay, it's nice. So, one more final question. So, actually, we have done some use case.
Uh, by using the vector DB, we know, the RAT techniques only.
Hmm. Hmm.
Just another one question. There is a context length over there, and if you increase the context length.
Uh, which is the better… which is efficient, or if you have the very… less context window.
Uh, easier the better. Which approach is the better, sir? You can…
I think the mid-sized context window is always, like, better for most of the use cases.
For example, so let's suppose if I'm trying to ask a question on maybe some, like, something related to a coding module, right? So in that case, a mid-size or maybe a small-sized context window is completely fine, but let's suppose, let's suppose if I have a Wikipedia kind of a data, Wikipedia kind of a file.
And, uh, there are, like, a lot of information which is connected with the other information we have.
So in that case, longer context window, so that whenever we are going to hit a query, it will be able to bring a top-case search, but with a bigger context.
And that will go inside my LLM, so that I will be able to get a better result without any kind of a hallucination.
Yeah.
So it's a case-by-case. So what you're trying to solve, basically. But ideal size, I believe, like, 400, 500, if you are going to keep.
I think that will be a great starting point, or maybe 1000.
And what is a good part of the top K? Pi or 10, like, are there any industrial specifics? Top carrier one?
So, basically, top… top came is top 3, top 2, so whenever you're trying to send a query into the vector database, right? So it will try to take the very first, the closest one, then the second closest one, then the third closest one.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah? So basically, these three contexts, if you are going to bring together, so most of the, like, maybe you will be able to achieve 95% accuracy over there, or maybe 90% accuracy over there.
So that's the reason we always go with the top K.
Okay, salam, uh, going to use all the three… for example, if we use the top K3.
That top K will be the context. Llm is going to use it.
Llm is… Yeah, top… there's…
Yeah, sugar goods.
Query… Yeah, so basically… technically, it will be query plus context. So, query will be your original query, or context will be what? That top K.
Correct. So your LLM is going to aggregate all the top, or written top KLM and will refine it, or… Is it going to replicate?
When you are creating, yeah, when you are creating the context, by default, all these top K will be aggregated. If you are setting a value of k is equal to 1.
Means only one, only one… the very first top one.
One, one, run. But the LLM is going to refer all the things based on the top K and conditional.
Yes, yes, based on the top game, yes, yes. Okay, next one is Anandrava, please go ahead with your question.
Yeah, Andravat and Naresh, then Siddharth, one by one, please go ahead, guys.
Uh, yeah, hi Sudan Shuk. Uh, hope I'm watching. Uh, so, uh… I have some general questions, and two questions related to this class. So, you have mentioned that there are multiple keys that we can use in UDPI.
Hmm. Hmm.
So I wanted to understand, uh, why is it required? Because you have mentioned that one key is good enough.
No, no, no, one key is good enough, but basically, when you are going to create a key, for example, let me share my screen, if I have created a key over here.
Right. And, uh, created a key, something like this I have created. And then, if you are going to refresh this screen, now you will not be able to copy the key. We are not allowing you to copy the key.
Okay. So…
So, basically, we are allowing you, from the security purposes, basically, we are allowing you only copying a key for one time, when you are going to create it.
Right. So, obviously, now you can't copy the key. Now, which key you are going to use? Let's suppose you have not copied the previous one. Let's suppose you forgot the previous key.
Right. So now, which key you are supposed to use? So you will have to come and create the new key.
Got it.
That's the reason, so we have given you this option. Because this is the standard procedure, as per the security reasons.
Okay. Uh, so the next question is that, uh. In the post and GET method and all of that.
So, you are basically returning a statement, like in key-value pairs, right?
So, uh, which, uh, who is calling and who are returning to? Because usually in the Python classes that we have gone to.
We are using either the debug statement, or we are printing at different points of time.
Hmm.
Uh, to understand how the, uh, flow of logic is going.
But here, we are returning, you know, in the mention, like.
Debugging? No, no, no, you are… I think you are doing a apple-to-orange comparison. So, debugging is completely different, so where step-by-step, in which step, what is the variable values, and then in between, so we can try to even feed the variable values.
And then what will be the value which will go to the next step? This is something that we try to check. So debugging is a different process, right?
Think as executing a function, not debugging, executing a function. So when you execute a function, what do you do? You try to pass the input.
If function is taking some input, and then eventually you will be able to get the output.
Same thing goes with the API. The only difference is that same function, I have… I'm trying to hit it with the help of.
Rule-based system. Which is called as URL.
You want it.
Yeah, I got it. It is technology agnostic, right?
Basically, I'm trying to make it neutral. I'm trying to make it… this is what I have discussed in my studies class, right? That meaning of API. So… Exactly. Basically, you have, like, a heterogeneous system, so where someone is writing code in some other language, you are using some different platform, I'm using some different platform.
But, eventually, you will be able to access my code, my function, and you will be able to access your function, and I will be able to access your function.
Vice versa. If I have exposed something as an API. Simple meaning.
So, moving forward, all of these APIs are basically, you know, either nested or simple.
Dictionary key value pairs, right?
No, not like that. See, technically, it's a function I'm trying to execute. It's not, like, why you're doing a comparison with the dictionary key value pair all the time? Yeah.
I'm returning key-value pair, maybe, in some of the… some other cases, maybe I will be returning just a text. In some other cases, I'm returning just a table. In some other cases, maybe I'm just trying to store a data into a databases. There can be infinite number of cases, right? Technically, API means.
I'm able… I'm trying to execute a same function that you are able to execute maybe, like, somewhere in IDEs, but with the help of URL.
That's the whole meaning.
Okay. Uh, uh, you are pasting this curl command in PowerShell or in C, normal CMD?
You can push it in a CMD, you can push it in a PowerCell, anyone, anywhere you want, wherever curl will be accessible.
Okay, I'll… So, actually, I was facing some problems in CMD. I was thought… I was thinking that you were pasting it PowerShell.
Uh, to…
Yeah, so… You can just be… wherever curl is available. Curl is basically a command, it's a library, right? It's a package.
So, wherever curl is available, it will work. If curl is not available, it will not work.
So we have to… we have to install a curl labyrinth as well.
Yeah, you will have to install the kernel, yes. In that case. Yeah.
Okay, okay, I missed out that point, okay. Uh, see, the major problem that I'm facing right now is that, uh.
What I understand going forward, uh, right, uh, right now, we are in the fourth class.
Hmm.
So, company laptops, I don't think will not be a good, uh, uh… you know, option to go ahead, because moving forward.
There will be multiple permissions that will be required, and we do not have such access. Some of them are already installed in my system, Okuja approval legit karval yatha.
Yeah, yeah. Hmm. Mm.
With those, I'll be… because I was working on some projects.
And I have built some apps or automations for my own development as well.
Okay.
But apart from that, so, can you, uh. You know, give us an idea as to what kind of laptop or desktop, because I am… I'm not moving to… planning to move out of my current city right now.
So, should we go for laptop, or should we go for desktop configurations? And if you can… suggest anything below 70K, because last time, Apna jub diyata, wo.
Mm-hmm. Um, if you're…
Okay, let me, let me…
I think it was touching on one lakhot 20 penguins. And second part of this question, second part of this question is that, uh, since you have already mentioned a very deep significance of APIs and what most of the.
Work that we'll be doing is on, um. Deployment, and we are using models that has been rendered somewhere else. So, do we need to have a local GPU, uh, high-capacity GPU?
No, not at all. So, even the recent video, if you'll follow, if you'll see, so I have used a GPU from some other platforms. I'm not using my local GPU, even though I have a GPU, but practically, even this GPU will not be sufficient, even if I have a 40… 8GB of GPU or 28GB of GPU, RTX series, that is not going to help me out. In terms of, you know, retraining the model, in terms of fine-tuning a model, or even in terms of inferencing the model, existing model.
So, ideally, it's of no use for me, uh, like, I can just use my system for writing a lightweighted code, even though my system is a bulkier one, like, it's a heavy system that I'm using, but it's still not enough at all for those kind of models, so… I will show you, even in class, I'll show you those examples with those GPU, and in a real time, we are using those GPU, which is available over the cloud. And even if you'll see my video which I published yesterday and day before yesterday, I have shown each and everything in a, like, uh, this one.
So, a hyperscale cloud, basically. And, like, there is something called a paper space, even on AWS, Azure, GCP, you will be able to get.
Similar kind of a GPU. So, we'll not be using in our system.
I will say, go with the i5. Go with the i5 later generation, that will work.
So, in that case, any recommendations, like, what is the configuration that we should be going out with route? Because GPA is not a…
Okay, and is there… what is the basic difference between this generation and this i7 and i9?
So, which should we go for? Generation… higher generation, or higher I5 or i7?
So, see, the… So, basically, I9 will be the latest. Again, in I9, so you will be able to find out a latest family, maybe a 12 series, 13 series, something like that, right? So basically, this IE5, there is a generation called as i3, then there is a generation called as i5, there is a generation called as i7, there is a generation called as i9.
All odd numbers, right? Now, inside that generation also, you will be able to find out the series, a 12 series, 13 series.
So, it's like a worsening. So, we write, like, software worsening, we do it, right? Like, 1.0 point something. Then 2.3 point something.
So, in a similar manner, this laptop configuration has been, like, worsened. I9 is going to be the latest one.
And again, you have to check with the latest generation which is running, maybe 12 or 13.
For the use case of this particular course that you'll be teaching, uh.
So, I9.
From the start to the end, what do you suggest that we should go out with?
I5 to i7 is better. It is going to work, and it is not going to cost you much.
So maybe, uh, you can get, uh, something like this between, like, 60 to 70K, or 55K to 70K.
Okay, okay, thanks, thanks.
Yeah, yeah. Okay, so Nares, please go ahead. Just, just a minute. I'll call out, yeah. Nares, please go ahead.
Yeah, hi. Uh… Yeah, high students, the class was very good. Thank you so much for that.
Hi, hi. Thank you. Things, things.
Uh, yeah, my next question is, uh, see, we are in a generative AI course, right?
So there are a lot of terms, you know, which are leading to the confusion.
Mm-hmm. Hmm.
Like, what is a genetic AI, generative AI? I understood generative AI, we are using some LLM, and we are generating the output.
Right? So what does it mean by SMTK?
Hmm, hmm, hmm. Okay, so I'll… I think a lot of, like, syllabus, uh, I have already, like, mentioned that, uh, we are going to create the agents.
Agentica is nothing but a kind of an intelligent function, as of now. You understand function, right? Function that we write?
Yes. Yes, yes.
Inside our programming language. So think in that way, that kind of an intelligent function, which is using your LLMs. Llm is ChatGPT kind of a thing, right? So, which is using your LLMs, and it is able to do some sort of a task automatically without asking you, or within… without even taking your permission. That is something called as agent.
Okay. Uh, and… Yeah.
In a layman way. Technically, it's a function. It's actually a function, and I can create an agent with the help of some of the framework which is out there in a market. For example, Langchain.
Laba index, Langraph, Crew AI, Autogen, or maybe N1N.
Okay. So, uh, my next question is that only. So, uh, we have, you know, a lot of no-code tools and low-code tools, like you mentioned, NI10.
And Google is also planning to release Opel, which is in testing phase, I guess.
Yeah, yeah. Hmm, hmm, hmm.
Uh, so if these tools come into the picture, like, uh, what is the future of agenetic AI with Python instead of using the tools which is, you know.
Doing our task way better.
Okay, I'll try to give you this example. So, see, we had Excel sheets since our decade, right? Since 200 decade, we are using Excel sheet. Uh, in the… inside Excel sheet, we have a formulas and automation we can do.
Yes, yes. Yeah, yes.
Right? But we still, we need someone to write those formulas, some expert.
Got it. Correct, correct.
Because everyone can't write those formulas, right? Even though those formulas are not a black box, right? It's like a, uh, understand the business use cases, understand the data, write the formula, and maintain it, and then eventually you will be able to see the final report inside Excel sheet. Only Excel sheet I'm talking about, nothing, not very fancy things, right?
So, similar… this is how I see the future of event agents.
So, yes, there is a no-code tool, there is a low-code tool, and there is a code-based tool.
Yeah.
Right? For example, this chain, Langraph, Llama indexes. So, these are basically a pure code-based tool. If I'll talk about N8N, so it's a low-code or no-code kind of a tool.
Yes.
Right? So where you can try to even, like, you know, upload the JSON file, and then it will be able to create the flow, or you can just do a drag-and-drop, drag and drop, drag and drop. All those components, and one by one connected.
And even anyone will be able to, like, you know, create the workflow.
No. Just like an Excel sheet, we need an expert who can write the formula, who can understand the data. We need an expert.
Even in low-code, no-code, and complete code kind of a system.
So, this is how I see the future. So there is a lot of future. And, uh, yeah, as these agents are, like, you know.
Becoming a mainstream, I will say, a kind of a tech.
Front tire for most of the company, or for most of the application.
So, obviously, demand is growing, and going forward, you will be able to see a lot of things, like, uh, in demand. There, people are, like.
Getting a very good opportunity, just in terms of agent, so that they can go and automate the work.
So that, that's my perspective.
Okay, yeah, understood. My last question is, uh, so in this course.
Mm, hmm, hmm.
Uh, I think we are covering fine-tuning the LLMs, right? Uh, so, uh, let's say I, uh, instead of using, uh, 3 billion parameters, 7 billion, there are a lot of weightage, uh, is available in the market, like 70 billion, 30…
Hmm, hmm. Hmm.
Uh, let's say for my use case. I just need a small LLM. So, which course do I need to take if I want to build a small LLM? So, which.
From scratch, from a scratch, or from fine-tuning? From a scratch or from fine-tuning?
Usually fits with my use case.
So, you're trying to build a model, but from scratch, you are trying to build a model by doing a… Yeah, you are audible.
Uh, might be… am I audible? Oh, yes, yes. Might be from, uh, scratch, because…
Okay. Hmm.
As the already available models, if you see, right? There are unnecessary languages that are included, uh, mostly.
Like, German languages, Spanish, so I don't need all these languages, I need only basic English model.
Hmm. Hmm, hmm, hmm.
So, I just want to build from the scratch. So, for that, what skills do I need?
Okay. Okay, so basically, you have to understand our fundamentals, which is a fundamentals of transformer. For example.
If you will go through this lecture, which I have given, so where I have even shown to build a model from the scratch. So here.
Generative AI. Uh, generative, generative AI…
Yeah, uh, this one. So this was also a live class. Now, if you'll go through this, uh, live class lecture. So, here.
The real transformer and GRU and, uh, various model comparison. Yes, GPT practical from scratch, right? So, this, this lecture, and here I'm teaching, like, building a GPT kind of a model from the scratch, but before that, right? Right before that, so I talked about RNN, I talked about a LSTM, and before that, I talked about vectoring, I talked about, basically, a neural network.
And then I talked about a transformer. There is a research paper called as Attention is All You Need.
And basically, that is the mother of all the GPTs or LLMs that you are able to see today. That is the mother, basically. Without understanding that, you will not be able to understand the core transformer. So that is something which I have discussed over here.
In theory, in practical, all. And then we are trading a model from the scratch, as you can see, this 13th lecture.
And then, uh, I'm showing even a fine-tuning. So, both approach. So, let's suppose I have, like, trained the model from the scratch, I can do it.
I have to fine-tune the model, right, in a different, different way for the different, different tasks. Even that, uh, like, things I have even shown, uh, inside this one.
And even in this lecture, this generative AI that is going on, right? So, I have already mentioned about fine-tuning, and I'll try to even teach you that how to train a model from the scratch. So, if you would like to go ahead with those lectures now.
It's available. Right, you can go and check that out. It was also a live class.
And if you have to wait, then wait for your class, and even here, I'm going to talk about it.
Okay. So, my last question, uh, so this LLMs, right. The generate output a single token at a time. Correct me if I'm not wrong.
Hmm. Changa by chang, basically. They have a context length, output context length, so let's suppose output context length is this much.
So, there's so much they will be able to generate, one at a time.
Okay.
I read some news, I think, a day before I started, I think.
So, uh, Apple has come out with, uh, you know, multiple output tokens, something related. If you know anything about that, you can explain, because I didn't understand what they were, uh, talking.
Multiple output token, anyhow, every model is doing it. Every LLM is doing it, by the way.
Yeah, yeah, uh, maybe I'll do one thing. I'll search that article and send you in the group, so that you can give the comment.
Maybe that context, yeah, because context could be different, maybe, like… Yeah, contest could be different, which maybe you are not able to remember, so yeah, just send me that article.
Sure. Yeah. Sure, sure.
Right? But I think every model is doing it, so even the model that we are using it, right, by default is doing it.
That's the reason it's called a multi-headed attention. Multi-head means, anyhow, multiple output I will be able to get.
Sure. Milk, yeah, uh…
Yeah, thank you. Okay, next is Siddharth, please go ahead. Yeah, I… Thank you.
Yeah, hello, Sudangshu. Thank you so much for this great session, and I'm happy that I could, uh.
You will utilize yesterday's session and… run it successfully on my system. So, my question is, in case of Postman, we can send this, uh.
Okay, that's great. Hmm.
Git API through Postman, and also we can directly. We're sitting in the link using, uh… Which one, Mark, is UPL?
Url, yeah. Hmm.
Yes, no URL. So, in case a post, I could successfully run it from Postman, but in URL, you cannot do it, isn't it?
No, you can't do it, basically, because URL means your data is exposed, and POST simply says that, that your data should be secured. Means, whenever I'm sending a data, I should send it as a body.
Not inside the URL, which should be visible to everyone.
Okay, and another question is that we use render today to deploy our code, but yesterday we used also Engrock to, uh, deploy our code and create a.
We have not deployed yesterday. We have not deployed yesterday, so our code was in my system.
Code was running in my system, so basically it was using my compute, my CPU, my RAM, my disk space.
I have just done one thing. On whatever port, like, things were running in my system with the help of ngrock, I have exposed that port and made my system as a server, a global server.
But eventually, it was utilizing my resources, my computation, my RAM. Today, what we have done, so we are not running anything in our local system, we have migrated all the code into a GitHub. Eventually, Render is trying to pull all my code, Render is trying to set up all the system.
Uh, even when I have switched off my, like, API, if you are going to hit my render API, you will be able to access it, because still it's up and running, and it's independent of my system. So both approaches are different. Ngrock was… this is something which I told you, right? Ngrock has been used for the port forwarding.
Means, whatever is adding in my port, make it available to the entire world. But… Compute will be mine. If I'm going to switch off that system, if I'm going to switch off that API, it is not going to work. Ngrog is not going to give you any responses.
In case of render, it's global now, on a cloud, without my computation, without my resources.
Okay, and for the, uh… render URL that they give, can we modify it, like, using our personal.
You can do your own mapping, you can do your own mapping, but that is available with a paid plan.
Thank you, thank you so much.
So let's suppose you would like to deploy it at Siddharth, at the Siddharth.com or Siddharth.ai. Maybe you have that domain, right, name with you, right? You have purchased that domain.
You can point your domain, uh, with that. Yep, thanks. Okay, next is Ganesh, please go ahead.
Saeed? Yeah, Ganesh.
Yeah. Those are my question is related to this, uh…
Uh, Python pile. So, when we use Java.
Hmm.
At the time we create a class. And then file name is also with the class name.
Hmm. Hmm.
In the Python, we don't do that. Any name we define and class, say, inside the class, and uh… Method 2 really depends.
I have not even created the class, by the way. I have not even created the class over here.
How I created a class in today's class? That was a Pydentic one, that was for the data validation, that was not a classes that you understand, right? So basically, I didn't my class was inheriting the base class, which is technically a…
Okay.
Like, it was trying to inherit something from the pedantic, uh, nature, like, rules.
But I have not created that class, technically. Even in today's class.
So, in Python also, we create a class, right? No?
Yeah, we do create a class, Python supports a complete object-oriented programming, along with the scripting.
So, file name is different, and the class they create inside that file.
Hmm. That could be different, yes.
So, how, uh, suppose, suppose 10 files I have created, and inside the 10 files.
The same class I have created. Right? So, which… which will be called, uh, how the Python decides.
Hmm. Hmm. So basically, how Python works is that, let's suppose there is a file called as XYG. Okay, let me share my screen, let me explain it to you.
In theory. So… And a beautiful explanation I have given to you, the Python lecture which I have uploaded, right? A beautiful, practical explanation I have already mentioned, but as you have asked, so let me, like, tell it to you.
So let's suppose I have a… I think my pen marker is visible, right?
Yeah.
Okay. So let's suppose I have, technically, a class over… a pile over here. Let's suppose, uh.
Test.py file. And then I have something called as XYG.py file, and then something I have called as abc.py.
Pi file. Pi. Now, inside ABC, there is a possible that I will be having class ABC.
Right.
Right? Tide this XYZ.py file, there is a possibility that there will be a class, sudansu.
Yeah.
Right? Not XYZ. In ABC, there is already, like… so, just case number one.
Let's suppose that your file name and class name is same, right? Case number two, my file name and class name is different, right? And then from test.py file, you are trying to access, basically, whatever is available here, whatever is available here.
Yeah.
Because that will be your whole objective? Right. To call class ABC and call class SUDH. Now, so basically, we try to maintain a package or directory structure. With the help of directory structure, it will be able to understand it. So, and there is also a possibility that these are the direct file, and then there is a folder over here. Now, inside this folder, I have another files.
Right. One step, like, a down, or one step up, you have to go. So, let's try to talk about this example, uh, first of all. So, if I have to, like, take an action, or if I have to call this ABC.
From this test.py file. So, first of all, it will call a file name.
So, ABC, right? So… are going to write something like from ABC.
Yes.
Import ABC, because class name is what? Abc? So from every file name, import what? Import class name. Simple, right? Case number 2.
Yeah. Yeah.
Again, from test.py file, I'm trying to call this SUDH class. So, again, what I will write from.
Xyz, import what? Import what? Sudh?
So, in this way, we'll be able to access. Simple.
Yeah.
Okay, so there we call a package, here we call directory structure.
So this… No, here also we call it classes and packages and modules, basically.
Nope.
So, we call packages, and then inside that, so we'll be having a model. So, this is something which I have explained to you in your Python lecture as well, with the practical. And again, there are some edge cases, like init and many things we try to handle.
So, if you are looking something in detail, watch my Python recordings, but I believe this answers your question, the expansion which I've given to you.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah. The next question is, uh, the API key that we generate, so what is the… validation duration for this only 24 hours are…
No, this API key will be live as long as you are going to, like, work for it. Uh, we are expiring it in 365 days, I believe.
Okay.
Once your account will be, like, deactivated. And once you are going to renew… once you run plus means Euron will be… Euron Plus will… access will be gone, or maybe your course access will be gone.
So, as of now, Euron+, you provided for one year. Is there any plan in, uh… Which is lifetime access you will be providing.
Lifetime is not possible in this module, because it's, you know, like, it's a too much things. Too much means, like, uh, Yuri, Avni, Yuri API, resume system, live courses, recorded courses, so many things, so many things we are trying to build, so… Lifetime is not possible. Maybe in future we'll have to increase some prices.
Yeah.
There is a very high chance, because we are very affordable in the market, and plus, like, uh, we are trying to give something which is useful. Recently, we have launched Avni. Just go and use Avni, you will literally enjoy it.
Right. Believe me, if someone is going to even score 70-80% in Avni, for sure they can crack the interview, any interview.
Yeah, okay, thank you, Subhan.
Yeah, so… we'll give you more features, but not lifetime, so that's not possible. Yeah, so, Saeed, go ahead. After that, Avinas, go ahead. And after that, I'll start, like, uh… taking a screen sharing.
President, thanks for the opportunity to talk, and… Unfortunately for you, maybe this class.
Yeah, same.
I was a small question that we have started the server, we have deployed the server over there.
Or did not get an opportunity to, like, shut down all this, uh… stop the service over there. So, Alex.
No, you can, you can stop it. So, for example, let me share my screen once again, and let me go to the render.
So, RD and DR end up. And let's suppose I'll go to my dashboard. So, by default, if your service is inactive for, like, 30 minutes, so Render is going to.
Stop it, because we are using our free instances. If we are using our paid instances, then it will up and running for the infinite team. For example, this is the.
Api service, right, that we have deployed today, right? So, come over here, and then you will be able to check stats over here, each and everything. Uh, as of now, it's running in a free.
And then there is a restart service option, then setting option, if you'll come down.
There is a delete option, so if you would like to delete permanently, delete it. If you would like to, like, you know, suspend it for now, and then in a later stage you would like to keep it up.
Then click on this one. So these options are already available.
Okay, thank you. Second question is, basically, thank you so much.
Yeah.
Second question is, uh, in the UD API, I can see that 120 billion parameter model you have deployed.
Hmm.
But I can see that it's accessible through the API key, but it is not accessible through the.
App, basically, like a chat.
In API key, we have given a 24-25 model. In a chat, we are not giving you, like, 24-23, we are giving you, like, a… Quality Limited model over there.
But whenever you normally deploy and are able to get that, I can see the results are really great for the 120 billion parameter, actually.
Um, it's not like that. So, basically, if you're going to use a GPT-4.1 even 4.0.
Results are actually great. Right? Light-weighted model, but super-fast model, and, like, a super intuitive model, so you can just try to use it.
See, I'm like, uh, now we are living in a world where you can't say that this one is great, that one is great. At the end of the day.
I need a system which can solve my problem immediately. And I believe for that, we have enough number of models, which we have open source.
Other, uh, which we have, like, opened for the entire student, uh, that we have. Uh, otherwise, unnecessarily, we will end up adding hundreds of models.
Right. So I think we have, like, enough, which works, which really works, and which works very, very fast.
Got it.
Exactly. But thank you so much for my question, sir. Nothing happens.
Yeah, thanks, thanks. Yeah, I mean, I was, uh, go over to the question.
My question is regarding UDP. So, uh, you… Show the euro with their help of current implementation.
So, how to run your API with Python? It didn't seem like a…
How to run your UIP with Python? We have already given you a sample code, and I think now it should not be a question, but fine.
Yuri API, right? Now, come over here, code example. Simple copy.
Yes.
Go here… Let's suppose I'm going to create a new file.
And maybe some file name. Py file, or maybe a Jupyter notebook itself? Nahid.
And here, paste it. Now, this is a chat completion. What is a, like, a prompt that you're trying to give? This one. And here.
This is static, static, static that you have, it's… you have to replace it with your API key.
So what I will do, I'll quickly go over here. I'll try to create a new API key, let's suppose.
Copy it, replace it, this is static, not a BRR, only static, right?
No, execute and done. It is hitting my model. Which model? This particular model. It is trying to hit. See, I'm able to get the response.
Yes, sir, got it, sir.
Yeah, it's very simple. It's like that, like. Everything is given to you.
Yeah? Yeah, okay, fine. So now, uh, people can start sharing a screen. So, first of all, Hemant can go, then Bharatwa, then Arman, then Manish, then Mohit. Yeah.
So we'll follow this sequence. Yeah, Ayman, please go ahead with your screen sharing.
Anyone else, guys, who have to share their screen?
Gigi, I have sent a request to share the screen.
Okay, yeah, fine, I have allowed. Yeah, please say it.
Sister Dante are able to, uh, do the rest of the things.
Okay. Mmm… which one, which one?
But this one, I'm still getting the error.
Increases, yeah.
Hmm.
And when I click on this, no?
It says detailed notes for me.
Hmm? No, no, it's fine, it's fine. It's actually fine. So, this will give you… because, uh, on your home URL, right? So you are not returning anything, any string or any JSON, so which is going to show any kind of a message.
So, it's giving you detail not found, it simply means that it's working. Do slash docs.
It's… it means it's actually working. See, at this URL, we have not written anything, right? That returned me this message.
Or maybe return Hello World kind of things. So just do some docs, it will, it will return.
Hmm… Okay. So, uh… So then I… so that means?
You will be able to see. It's work.
When I was deploying this, uh… using render.
Hmm, hmm. Similar result, exactly, yes.
It'll also give the similar results then. So what should I do, sir, uh, to…
Uh, give me the right results.
So, like, you would like to see some message, this is what you're trying to say, right?
Uh, if I want to… delete a user or do something.
Okay, okay, okay, okay. So, show some… so… okay, so, no, so you are trying to say that it should show you.
Uh, the deleted user as well.
Ah, deleted user or additional user, or anything.
It will… it… see, as of now, we are trying to keep our data well. So, we are trying to keep our data into a variable. Now, what is the meaning of that variable? Variable means it's an in-memory.
Yes. Yes? Yes.
It's available in a RAM, right? This is the meaning of it. It's not a database that we are hitting, it's basically.
We are trying to hit our local variable. Which is a part of our main memory, technically a part of the RAM. So, you can try to do a print, which you will be able to see in a console.
Right? And then, maybe, like, you can try to even showcase those same values in a UI if you want.
So, you have to… let me… modify this code.
So let's say, yeah… so let's say, for example, if I want to add a new user.
Let me… Hmm…
Uh, how can I do it? I mean, maybe it sounds a very basic question, but…
Okay.
Just a minute, I'm modifying the code. So…
Okay, so just try to add one get. I'm pinging you inside a chat, so maybe you can try to add one get. So, whenever you have modified something, try to call a get URL.
The user, and then try to pass a username, it will be able to show you that.
Basically, it's another API, right? So, just to modify, so I have used my fake user DB.
So, uh…
Uh, just change it with your user DB. So your variable name is userDB, by the way.
It's a user DB. Your username is? Yeah.
Nod slash user, and just try to pass the username, it will be able to show you all the data. Or maybe if you would like to showcase the whole data.
Then change the URL. So Git will do you that. Git will do that.
Let me… let me try. So, uh, this one.
Yeah. Yes.
Denzel? Should I just do this one?
Yeah, it says, yeah. Just this one.
Hmm, you can go to the link, you can try to type, like, a user slash username.
And now, I can go to the link.
Uh, in the URL?
Yeah, so slash user, slash username. Users, users, USERS, that is something that you have given, right?
And username, so whatever username which is available inside your DB.
Yes.
Okay, now at least I'm able to see that, uh… Even if it is not there, then I'm able to see the wrong message.
Exactly, yeah. So that is how, like, it will be able to give you… you're sending a GET request, right? So GETS is something which I can send to the URL.
Yes, sir.
So this is something which I, like, just call the URL, and if there is a result, it will try to give you. If there is no result, it will not give you.
Means whatever message that you are printing, right, whatever return that you are giving, that… So basically, your, uh, variable name is not user name, by the way, so check that out. No, no, no, it's not like.
Username, so it's basically… user ID.
Use an idea.
So, user… just go back to your code, let's modify a little bit.
So, userDB, and then inside the user DB, bracket, bracket. And try to put a user ID.
No, no, no, come down, get, get method, get, get. The last one, the get one.
Good method? Okay. Yes.
Yeah, so it should be UserDB. If username in userDB, and then after userDB, bracket, it's a dictionary, right?
So, just try to pass, uh, as a username, return user.
Name… Let's suppose I'm giving…
They return usage.
Any values. Okay, fine. Save it, go back to your browser. Got it, got it. You have to, like, give an ID, basically. It's a 123.
Go back to your browser. Now, in terms of Dansu, just type 1.
Okay.
Oh, okay. Got it, got it, got it. Uh, but it is not user ID.
It's ID, right? Yeah, so the very first variable.
No, it's username, username. So, your URL, right. User slash. Users, users slash users.
It is, uh, ah.
What is your route? Your route is users? Users, yeah. Now hit.
Users.
Yeah, that is what I do. Yes, sir.
That is your URL, right? Just, just go back, go back, show me once.
Uh, to the court.
Yes. So, U.S. I'm known?
U-s-e-r-s. Yeah… Line number 35.
I think it is user. Yeah, I think… I think it is line number 35.
Yeah, line number 35, and your DB is this one, so it should return, basically, uh… Yeah, it doesn't matter the username you're passing, it's the data that you're passing, right?
So, variable is fine. Users, and then user name, that's fine. So, USERS. Yeah, hit it now.
Uh, should I… should I run it once again?
No, no, no, it's fine. You have already run with the reload, right? So it will update automatically.
Good news in. Okay, okay, I'll do it.
This was… yeah, this was not required, was it?
Slash users…
And one, yeah. It should take, uh, username, then as ID.
Try to pass one. Oh, it should.
You know, it's not…
It's 200 users one. For that, it's giving me 200. Which looks good to me.
And your event route looks good to me. Uh, yeah, it's giving me 200, so why it isn't…
Yeah.
Not… Turning the…
Maybe should I try this once again?
Slash, there's no route is fine. Slash user… just drive it to 2, ID 2.
Slash user's ID 2. Maybe you have to… yeah, ID 2.
In a terminal, it is giving, uh… Yes, yes.
No, and dominant is giving you 200 OK, right? So, which is… simply means that… It's a good request, but in return, you have written.
Yes.
Uh, this one, and let's suppose… Um…
We return. Because in the terminal, it says… It's all okay request.
Hmm, it's all okay request. It's actually okay request. There is nothing wrong…
Okay, yeah, just go up. Someone has added username, data type was actually in teaser.
Just, just go up, go up.
Okay.
And, uh… But doesn't matter, like, it's an integer that we are trying to pass.
And…
Product ID, and then make…
It's taking as a… string…
I just want to get Method next week.
No, no, that is not an issue.
Ideally, it should work. I don't see any kind of an issue in this one.
And you are doing, uh… just go to your postman, or maybe, like, just try to do a curl.
Okay. I'll do it organism.
Yeah, just do it from a postman, or do it from a curl, because it's a 200, right? So 200 simply means that everything is working fine.
Yes, sir. Okay.
I don't know, like, why it is, uh, not, uh… showing, but it should show, actually.
So, good. Cesar, help me with this commandment. I'm not that…
Good, good.
Which one? Curl? Curl, then, like, uh, space, then hyphen X, and then space, then method name, get.
Good GLT good? Then, space, and then there will be a string, open double quote.
Yeah, and close double quote, and then in between, try to write your URL.
Uh, this one.
Yeah, so try to write your, like, this URL, yeah.
So, here you have… you're trying to, like, do a curl, right?
Uh, first of all, curl is not recognized here. Invalid request, this, this, this, no, no, no.
Not work.
This H2DB.
Is it catch in a browser? Yeah, there is a possibility. But, uh, Carly, you are writing, right?
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Yes, sir.
Again, looks good to me. Just do one thing, so remove the method, uh, remove X and remove GET.
Just try to keep this URL.
And it will be string as well. And remove, uh…
It removes Jane? Okay.
Just, just keep the URL. You are a yes.
Just give the U. Okay, uh…
Your… Remove, remove codes, basically.
Is it this one? They remove quotes? Okay.
Yeah. Someone is saying he's passing ID. It doesn't matter. Basically, he's passing a variable. The mapping should be correct, so it doesn't matter what name he's passing.
Unable to connect to the remote server, uh, curl is not available, it seems.
In your system, just do one thing, give me a control, I'll check from my end.
Okay, so…
Hmm, give me a control.
Okay, so here…
Wow, what is Cell…
Okay. Sddb… Oh, and one more thing, your application itself is not running, how will work?
Your application is not up and running, so how call will work, by the way?
Sorry, sir?
No, just try to open up a new PowerCell. If I have to do a curl… do a curl… eh?
Url slash… Users slash… to get method.
Yeah, so we are able to get the response, and response says that user not found, okay?
Nice. Yes.
Fine, so user not found. But we are able to hit it. Basically, it's a 200, something that we are able to hit it.
Yes.
Now, it's telling me that user not found, user DB, this, this, this, this, this.
Okay. Hmm…
And get you have kept it here.
Def. You can get underscore users, then…
Here, I'll try to pass ID. Id should be integer. And then… Let's do the mapping. A return, basically, RE.
8, you are in return, return what? So return, basically, the user ID variable that you have.
User DB, and then pass, basically, ID. A very simple code.
And it works. Uh, so here, I'll pass just an ID.
Fine. And then decorate it with app. Get method, and then give a route.
Over here, so slash, uh, get underscore, uh, maybe just I'll write, like, a usage user.
Slash, and then parameterize it. Id.
So, line number 19, uh, DB group.
Yeah, DB, so… DB. Ctrl-s.
It must have repress itself. Okay. Then…
So let's less users…
Got it right? Yeah. So, it was not… I don't know what… what was the mistake, maybe there was a string over there, it was not able to convert, so it was returning a blank.
Okay.
I don't know, like, it simply means that there is a dictionary called as userDB, and I'm trying to pass a key, it is going to return that value. Simple.
Okay, so yeah, TK, I mean, no.
Right, at this… at this particular… at this particular URL. And this is how you are… you can run the curl.
And you can test it anywhere else as well.
Okay, so now if I go to my URL, it should be… running correctly, correct?
Let's, uh… so it is Edge. So it is edge, and users.
Hmm, it should… let me go and test it now. What is the…
It should be user, yes. Yes, okay. Sir, uh, I… ah, that… this is okay, sir.
Noted, right?
Uh, I can see, uh, you had created in terminal. Can I take the control, sir?
Hmm. Hmm, you can take a control. Fine. Your system is yours now.
Okay. I can see this… there is UVCon and PowerSool. You have actually opened two terminals.
Is there a specific reason? I am not ignored.
Yeah, so basically, in one, your service should be up and running, right? So if you're going to stop your APIs, and then if you're going to call a curl, how it will be able to hit it.
Oh, correct, correct, correct, correct. So I'm very new to this, so please, please partner with me.
So… Okay. You can… yeah, so you can try to open up any number of terminals, because…
Got it.
Most of the time when you are testing it, right, so your application should be up and running, your backend should be up and running, your frontend should be up and running, so in UVCon that you are able to see, it's also a terminal, and this is also a terminal. In one, I have kept it up and running, and in second, I'm testing it.
Got it, got it. Now and I got it. Okay, thank you, sir.
Yeah, yeah. Last time when you were hitting a curl, right, so your API was not up and running, so it will not be able to… So how it will be able to give you the result.
Exactly, huh? And these are very… yeah, these are fundamentals, uh…
Yeah, yeah. Not an issue, like, you will get used to it very soon.
So I… huh. I'll get into it, that is not a problem. I just need to practice a little more.
Yeah, yeah. Yep, yep, yep.
Okay, thank you, sir. Thank you so much.
Oh, yeah. Next, yeah. Thank you. Okay, so next one, Bharatwaj Arman Manis, anyone?
Yeah, I mean, so… Uh, yeah, shall I share my screen, sir?
Anil and Prasan, uh, you have raised your hand. Yeah. Yeah. Yes, please go ahead, please go ahead.
Yeah, like, uh, yeah, uh, last week I started joining the classes, just today, again, I attended the class.
Okay. Mm-hmm.
So, yesterday's recording, you had to review it because of some issues.
So, like, uh, I… just now went to this API keys.
Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
And created this key. So I was trying to hit this, I mean, sample code using, uh… So, like, getting this error. Is it something prerequisite I need to, like.
Nationalization context, failed cryptid, this is check the user function, unable to check the revocation certificate, and what you are hitting.
Uh, this authorization key is fine, then data-wise, message, this, this, this, hello.
You are trying to give… no, I don't see anything wrong in this one.
Shall we create a key again, so maybe?
Uh, yeah, do it once again.
Hmm. Now, copy the curl, copy a key in a text editor somewhere, yeah, in a notebook, yeah. So, just copy everything.
Yes.
Copy the URI API key, fine. Copy the curl. Okay. And replace this API key with that one?
Shall I change the models?
Yeah, change the model, yeah. Gpt… 4.1… what is the name of the model? Exactly, 4.1, I believe, and nanone.
Should I check it, uh, here.
You're gonna check it inside, uh, even the first page. First, go to first page, introduction, yeah.
Now, here, OpenAPI, OpenAI, OpenAI, OpenAI, click on OpenAI, yeah, it will show all the models.
Okay.
Now, so let's check the ID. So, it's a 4.1 hyphen nano. Gpt-4.1.1 nano.
Yeah. Now it's good. Uh, you can try to, like, give some context. You're saying hello, right?
And change your API key, replace the API key. You already have a new one, yeah.
I don't know. Ah, yes, I updated it. Uh, so, okay, here I also has a…
So, replace it. Fine, and maybe content-wise, you can change the content if you want.
Ask any question, like, tell me about this, that, something, so…
Yeah, so, hit it now.
Sure.
Mmm… security context fail the revocation function was unable to.
Who will be sent for the secondary. Are you… are you… no, no, no, are you trying to use a company laptop or something?
Anything, like, I need to open PowerShell or Bash in admin…
Then… why it is giving US…
No, no, sir, it's my personal desktop itself. And I… do we need to open any partial or this thing in admin mode, or something like that?
Okay. Yeah, yeah.
No, not at all. It works in every mode. Basically, there is nothing to do with your admin, right? You are hitting…
Yeah, yeah, yes.
Uri Server. Uh…
And you are using Git to BAS, right?
Even I tried with the image to… I mean, model as well, which you… Yes, yes. I even tried with this in here as well.
Oh, the same thing.
And it is basically checking for SSL, by the way. So, whenever you are doing a… so there is an issue with your installation.
Over here, uh… Just open up a VS Code.
Okay.
Hmm. Now, open up a terminal. Yeah, clean, clean this one, clean this one, PowerCell, yeah, clean it.
Hmm. Hit the same.
Oh, okay.
No, no, it was not line-by-line, so, like…
Hmm. Hit?
Cannot convert JSON value, I'm just…
No, so it was expecting, uh, into the codes, uh, this URL that you are trying to pass, right? So whenever you do a curl.
Here, so generally, it expects… but, no, no, no, that's just fine, leave it.
Uh, just try to open up, uh, you're using a Windows machine, right?
Ah, Windows, yeah. Oh, shit, look.
Open a PowerCell. Separately. And, uh…
Inside that, if you have WSL, then… Yeah, open it, open it.
No, again, not line by line.
Because the issue that I'm able to see is with SSL, so your kernel is not, like, uh… in your, like, a Git bas, right? So it is not working.
Uh, one more thing, just let me do one modification in your SSL, then.
Okay. Uh, okay.
Uh, let me, uh, give… give me a control. So here, I can bypass your SSL, because unnecessarily your system is checking SSL.
Uh, so I can… Just leave your system, I'm controlled.
Okay. Yeah, I left it, yeah.
No, I am not able to access… let me… No, no, no, give up, remote, just wait, just wait.
Okay, shall I close this partial?
And now I'm again requesting you, give me a remote control, just click on the button. Yeah, click on the button.
Okay. Yeah, I approve it, yes.
Uh, now I can get it. I can get, uh, your control. So, SSL issue it is giving you, right? Let me bypass. Hyphen, hyphen SSL hyphen, revoke the access.
Okay.
Mmm, even… best hyphen EFFORTs.
So, because of some of your installation, it's giving you this issue.
Okay. Actually reinstall later after the class with the girls.
Yeah, that will fix the issue. Now, see, it's, uh, hitting. Yeah, now you got the output.
Okay. Okay. Okay, okay.
Sure. Okay.
So basically, I have written hyphen SSL revoke best effort, right? So, this was the certificate issue it was giving over here.
Right. Now, with the help of this command, so I have just, like, removed that check.
Okay, okay, okay. Okay, okay, okay.
And now you have the output. Yeah, okay. Yeah.
Sure, sure, sure. Sure. So, like, I mean, uh, yeah, one more question, like, uh, not with respect to this context, maybe, like, uh, I'm, like, almost, like, 9% years of experience.
So, like, uh, into currently into Kubernetes, like, last couple of years, I've been working with the Kubernetes, uh.
Okay.
Build automations and all. So, like, transitioning to this, like, the… Topics which you're teaching right here. So, switching in this position as a senior engineer, like, will we be able to, like, come and cope up with the things if you are, like, I mean, internally?
Easily, see, development-wise, I understands all kind of a development and tech as same. It's not very different, believe me.
And I think with 9 years of experience, you must have started realizing it. In next couple of years, you will be able to realize it in a better way.
Okay, okay. Okay.
Right. After some times of all ticks are same. Doesn't matter which you are implementing, which you are learning.
Okay, okay. So, like, I mean, this background knowledge of Kubernetes will be useful even as a…
Always, always useful. It will be very much useful in terms of productizing the application, in terms of scaling the application, and when you will go and talk about the story, right? That, okay, fine, this is something which I have done for this scale.
For this number of users with this kind of a hit per second, like, attraction per second.
That will give you a lot of backup. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay, okay. Sure, sure, directly. Yeah, thank you so much. Thanks.
Okay, thank you. Arman, please share your screen.
Yeah.
Most strange issue was resolved, so I have a question now, apart from sharing my screen.
Okay, sure.
Basically, we have created, you know, two requests, put and delete, like the update one.
Mm-hmm.
So, for a person who doesn't know about the postman, or the call part, so how they will be able to test our APIs regarding the update and resort and all that stuff.
See, girl, if someone is saying curl, you don't know, I will simply say one thing that you have never done any development.
That's the whole idea, right? If someone is saying that, I don't know… let's suppose Postman and curl. If someone don't know.
It's simply meant that you have never productionized a real-time project in your entire life, first part. Second part is, you are not aware about the basic of the language, because that should come with that.
Right? Uh, and again, uh, I don't think that, like, knowing about a curl or postman takes more than 5 minutes of time.
Right? So it's not a chapter. Curl is not a chapter. Postman is not a chapter that you have to go through, right? It's not a resource that you have to, uh, done. It's just a one single command. We don't know about many things, right? Before a studies class and today's class, we were not aware about, like.
This term's called as get, post, put, and delete. We were not aware about even how to, like, hit the APIs with the help of a ULS. Now, we are aware about it. Similarly, current postman, like, we are able to use it.
And I think those who have done at least a little bit of development, right, in any programming language, any means, literally any programming language, any framework.
They must be aware about curl, they must be aware about the postman, because without that, they can't do the real development.
Or things like called to test it, right? But…
Obviously, whenever you will create the API, you will test it, right? Without testing how you will deploy, how you will put that in a production, or any system.
When you said that was interesting. And…
Right? I don't… And to do that, you have to use either curl or Postman, or maybe some programming language where you will write, like, write an endpoint, and then you will try to pass the data, and you will get the response.
Yeah?
Having the practical example of how the API editing a database and displaying your data.
Just, just, just, just attend all the lectures. There are, like, a n number of combinations. You will go through… we'll… we will go through all the combinations in a class itself.
Like, if we were too fast-paced the learning of generative AI of this series, as we saw that you have a.
Completed one class before, so… and you've had… Last sequence we have to follow.
You're gonna… you can follow that sequence, even you will be able to learn all these in native AI concepts, yeah?
Okay? Fine. You have to share your screen, Arman, or more?
No, sir, I was having the regarding that my API was not working.
Oh, good. Just, just me, yeah. Just, just, just wait, wait, wait, wait, everyone, okay?
Good afternoon, sir. Sir, can I…
So, can I share my screen?
Okay, so Mukesh, please share your screen. After that, Manis, uh, will share the screen. After that, those who are raising their hand, so I'll take them.
Yeah, Amit Sarah. So, you would like to share the screen?
Shut them up.
Yes, that's okay.
No, no, no, not sharing, just 2-3 points. If you allow me…
Amit, Amit? Okay, I'll come… we'll talk it, we'll talk about it peacefully, okay? So, let me, like, there are two people only, Bukesh and Manish, who would like to share their screen.
Okay, yeah, so Mukesh, who is sharing, by the way? Yeah, Mukesh is sharing.
So, I want to say this again.
Yeah, but I'm sitting here. Yeah, so, uh, yeah, uh, so, uh, here, uh, to, uh.
Yeah, Mukes, please tell me, what is the issue?
Publish this code. Uh, I just, uh. Miss that thing, to debug the issues from my end.
Okay.
Then, just to wait for 4 hours, or to, uh… do it deployment right way.
So, what was the thing now? Uh, because I have, uh, if you see… This one… yeah.
Okay. Okay, so fine. You have to write, uh, like, inside this render, right?
So, basically, you have to write a UVCORN. Uh, just go to render.
Yeah. From the inside, yeah.
Yeah. Sorry, where is your screen? Okay, go to render, Python is fine, main is fine, uh, root directory is fine, blank, that's cool.
And then pip install requirement.txt. You have a requirement.txt, right, inside your file?
Okay. Now, also, inside this start command, so you have to technically write a UV corn.
Right? Uvcon, UVIs, URL. Uvc URN? Yeah. Space?
So what is your file name? Can you please show me your repository?
Yeah.
Yeah, so your file name is which one? Uh… where you have written the actual API code.
No, uh, no. Yeah, this one.
No. This is IPY and B. Okay, so you're… first of all, your PI file is capital.p… it should be .py, PY is small, otherwise it will raise a conflict. So, correct that particular part.
Uh, second is you have a folder inside a folder. So, technically.
Go back to your render, it will not be able to recognize, because it's not there, right? And even it will allow you to manage your requirement.txt.
So, here, come down, come down, come down. So, a branch is main, and then, like, a root directory. So, inside root directory, you have to mention… leave it, branch is main. Your branch is main, root directory.
The option, yeah. Over here, just try to type, uh, API.
No, no, no. Just don't give a slash, don't give a slash. Just type API.
What is your directory name? The directory name that you have given, right?
Yeah. Api testing.
Api underscore testing, and API underscore testing, yes, that one.
Yeah.
So that should be your root directory, because it will go there, and then it will try to, like, search. Yes, this one.
No? Yeah, so API testing. This is, this is correct. Leave it.
Okay. Okay, okay.
Till this point. And then you go and correct your PI file as well. Your PI file is not correct.
Just do one thing, give me a control, I'll do it from my end, within, like, 2-3 seconds.
Yeah, give me a control.
Yeah, fine. Leave your system. Now, so you have this, this, this, this, okay, fine, so you have a GitHub.
Just remove a chat window and everything from your system. It's, like, disturbing me.
Zoom with chat? Yeah. Or maybe minimize it?
Yeah.
And then the bar as well, the top bar. Remove that.
Let me change… everything. No, still there is a bar, remove that bar. I can't control that bar, by the way.
Once again, give me, uh…
Yeah, the top bar is just remove it. The bar, zoom bar, that is visible, right? So just remove that.
But I'm not able to see.
Well, I can see it, but I can't control that bar. Apart from that bar, I can control the entire screen, by the way.
Let me minimize. Okay, got it, huh?
Okay, just a minute, then.
Yeah, the bar that you can see, right? Okay, so dot… PI file, commit changes.
Okay, commit changes. Fine, so PI file has now become testing.py file, R-EQUIREMTS, so FastAPI and Unicorn is fine.
And then inside that, fine, okay. Good. Uh, go to render, then we have main, we have this, we have this, API testing, requirement.txt, fine.
We have UVicron. No, in our GitHub, I have all it directly, I have changed it, so no need to push.
We have to push, that changes we have to push.
Okay, okay, direct file, okay.
Yeah, so T-S-T-I-N-G, this is your file name. So, D-E-S, D-I-N-G, file name, colon app, and then I have to basically give a…
Hi, fun, hi youhan, host, and make it neutral. So, hyphen, hyphen…
Host, and 0.0.0.040. Port number, let me give it to 10,000 or 8000.
So, UVIs, URN, T-S-T-I-N-G, colon app, hyphen hyphen host, port number, fine.
No… Select Free.
Deploy.
Failed variety, this, this, doesn't exist, please check. Ow. So you already doesn't exist.
Is it API testing? So, under this… APA…
Which is your main… there is a… API testing.
Api, I think.
And it is not even able to recognize that one.
T-s-d-i-n-g.
A, EST. Gso genius.
Okay, cool.
Mmm, now it is able to clone. It was not able to reach out to that directory, could not find the version that satisfied the…
Requirement to fast… you have written ABIE. In your requirement.txt file, sir, you have written ABI, not ABI.
Go, hi.
See, it's AABI, so failed again. Okay, let me change it here itself. So, FAST, it's an API.
Yeah. Api, yeah.
Submit changes, commit changes. And then, let me push it from the latest commit. So, manual deploy, deploy latest commit.
What happened? Deployal latest commit. Deploy will start after the current deployment completes, okay?
Why don't we have an eye device.
Yeah, I agree.
Nothing.
Mmm, now it'll work.
Okay, so it was taking… it was the wrong name, and then the.
Requirement.alpa wrong, and…
Yeah, so, first of all. So, in the very first phase, your directory name itself was wrong. You have written, like, a directory inside directory, so we have to go inside that. Second one was your name was, uh, like, wrong, third one was, like, uh, your, uh, requirement.txt.
So now, build is accessible. So now it will work. Yeah, in progress, it will be live in some time, deploying.
Yeah, okay.
So the link will be, uh, coming here itself, uh, to see in the… Okay, okay, okay.
Link… link… this is the link, this is the link. So here, if you will go after deployment.
It will be live, so as of now, 5.02 means, still, process is going on.
Just wait for… yeah, now it's live. So now if I'm going to hit this link.
If I think, okay.
I will not see the same, I'll see detail not found, which is cool.
And I can do DOC… DOCS, so now I can render the Swagger UI.
Yeah, beautiful, dear.
With my own API, right? This one. Yeah, yeah, thank you.
Yeah, got it, got it, yeah. Thank you, sir. Yeah.
Okay, so… So one is monies, yes, monies. What is your issue?
Can I say my…
Show me your screen, show me your screen, give me access, I'll fix it.
Said, or in deployment, just to say.
Is it sharing some…
Yeah, so, yet to appear. What is issue, executive status, running this, this, this, this, this, okay, fine, so… testing app, port this one, okay? Uh, common way to troubleshoot, exit with the status code 117. Build was successful, deploy was successful. Okay.
Give me control, and let me check.
So, basically, this is your repo, you have requirement.txt. Fast API, UVCon, fine.
Then, which one you are trying to deploy? This one, testing.py.
The testing.ib, yeah.
Okay, fine. Testing.py file, you are trying to deploy. Hmm. Okay. So, this is fine. Then…
Sir, I guess in Visual Studio, I got an error. I guess you can see in VScore.
In VS Code, also, you got the error. Then… then… then we'll fix it there itself, we'll get to know what is the error.
Uh, I guess I will…
So, what is the error? You have received CLEAR… Hmm…
So… testing, hmm…
Notting very fun app.
Mmm, it's learning.
Let me open up any of your browser.
It's up and running. Looks good.
But in render, I guess it's not getting deployed.
Mmm, we'll see, we'll fix it.
Line, Python 3, main.
R-e-m-n-t-s dot TXT, pip install, okay? So, RDQ, I…
Genius, okay. Then… okay?
Mmm, it's working, it's life. See?
Okay, okay, okay.
Yeah, it's slave. Thanks! It was… it was just… it was just waiting for me to, you know, do something in your system.
Okay, sir, thank you, sir.
There was… there was no error. Yeah, go. Yeah.
So, like, yeah, I have one other question. I have another question. Sir, right now, I'm in fourth year, I'm doing electronics and communication engineering.
Okay. Okay.
Sir, I'm really, like, all these are new things for me, and I'm, like, I'm catching.
I'm catching fewer things. But, uh, is there any prerequisites? I know Python, and I know C++.
Mm-hmm.
Hmm, hmm.
Is it enough, or should I learn, like, about mathematics, they say, for, uh.
Just join my class, don't worry. Just join my class, you have a time, you are in fourth year, right? And uh… just learn with me.
I think that will be more than enough.
Why? Because, uh, even I don't have much experience, and I see in group many people.
Keep texting, and I guess it… all those becomes new things for me, so…
That's… that's fine. It should not know everything at a time, right? We are human, we're not a chat GPT, so it's fine.
Okay, okay, sir. Sir, and another doubt, uh, like, uh, you, you are running your… that curl, uh.
Yeah. Hmm.
Code command in your Ubuntu, right? So, that I can run in my PowerShell and, uh, encode prompt also, right?
Hmm, hmm.
Yes, you can run it, yeah. So, I have shown, like, some other people were running it, right, while doing… Curl will be by default available. By default, it will be available. If not, just update it.
Yeah, yeah, for that, I should install that core package, or…
Okay, so, fine. Thank you, sir, thanks so much.
Yeah, yeah, thank you. Okay, so… change your role. Now, Amit Prashant, Rakeshis, what is your question? Please go ahead, one by one. Prasamit, then Prashan, then Vakesh.
I think we have only 3 hands raised now. Yeah. Rakesh, Amit, Prashant, do you have any question?
Yeah, Bushant, tell me.
Uh, hello, sir, this is Prash. So, I just want to ask that, uh, in the study classes, that the post-API you're telling.
Okay.
So, when we are, uh, uh, mention this particular thing deployed to the NGR.
So, in that, uh, ng block. No, not a problem.
Mm-hmm. No, that was not a deployment, that is not called as deployment, that is called as forwarding, forwarding, basically.
Yeah. No, basically, like, uh, we are trying to do a port forwarding.
You know, already in public for wedding, like.
So, port, port, P-O-R-T port, port forward. That technical name is port forwarding, basically.
What is that, like…
Okay, so, uh, so in the postman, when I checked this using Posted AI, actually, I made one post-it AI.
Or when I kept in a postman, I'm getting responses using IGrop's API, or URL, whichever.
Hmm. Url, okay.
Hmm.
But when I put this particular URL into that, they are giving me empty response. So, I just want to ask for getting a response, should I use slash docs? Then, in the… particular…
No, no, dogs. Dogs is one of the way. Dogs basically give you a Swagger UI, so where inside a UI itself, you will be able to test it. So, basically, it's a… coming attached with the Fast API, right? If you have to test it in a postman, you can just go ahead with the simple URL and then the methods. If you have to test it in a curl, so all these things are different, different, like, a way.
By which you can… you are hitting the same APIs.
So my question is, when I make a URL using NGDraw, so when I go paste into the website.
Hmm. Hmm.
It's not giving me any response, so…
No, it will give you responses, just do ngrock URL slash docs. It will give you a response.
Hands, let her, then it will be given.
Obviously, how do our… how do we give you a response without, like, writing a downs? Even in your local, you are writing what? Local host port number slash docs, right?
Okay, okay, so that's why… because slash draft is necessary, right? When you're creating.
Oh, slash documents Swagger UI. So, that is a route for Swagger UI, basically. Swagger UI is basically… If it's just, like, an inbuilt inside FastAPI.
Because what I taught in GET when we are doing, we are not, uh, we are… they're actually giving response, but in post, because we have to pass a parameter.
Yes, if you are trying to do it with the Swagger UI, only in that case.
So, what passing a parameters, that dog required, right?
If you are doing it with, like, a postman, then slash docs is not required. Basically, your route is required, at which your method is, like, available.
Huh, that's what I'm doing. I'm doing multiple examination.
Okay, solve the assignment which I've given to you yesterday. Yeah, just, just, just, yeah, just, just solve it. Solve it, and then, like, I think things will be clear. I know, like, you are getting stuck.
Philosophically, that, okay, how this is happening? That's fine, that's fine. It's all the assignment.
Um, haha, right, right, right, right, right. Because a postman I'm getting, I saw the assignment. The postman, I didn't get their response.
But, uh, scratch docs are readiness.
Yeah, so based on philosophy is you have a method available at URL slash docs is nothing but, just like a postman.
So, Postman is one of the tools. By which I'm able to test. So, at slash docs, you are getting another tool.
Okay. Okay? Hmm…
Just imagine in this way. Just another tool which is helping you out in terms of testing an API.
Okay, thank you.
Just a tool. Yep.
Can I share my screen? Yeah.
Uh, yeah, Rakesh, you would like to share the screen? Yeah, please go ahead. Okay, so Prasan Gutai, please explain the option for working in organization without depending solely on… See, you have to use the Prashad API, maybe you can use from Auri, maybe you can use from OpenAI, maybe you use…
He's from a Gemini, because even if you're working inside the organization, unless and until your organization is not hosting those models, or you are not hosting those models on a GPUs.
You will not be able to do inferencing, you will not be able to build the IndustryGate application.
So, either go ahead with the URI API, or go ahead with, like, some other platform by paying, like, a PopExlity, OpenAI, Cloud.
Or maybe, like, a Gemini, anywhere. But you need an API.
And if you have to, like, host it, then I have published a video study itself, so host your model on a GPU, and then, like, you will be having your own model, and you don't have to, like, call Yuri or anyone's API. You will be able to call your own.
Hope I'm able to answer your question, Prashad. Uh, yeah, so, um, someone sent me, Rake is right. Yeah, share is, you have a permission.
Yeah. I'm not able to push my code to this VS Code.
Uh, sorry, GitHub. My little screen is shared.
Okay, share the screen, share the screen, I'll do it. No, I'm not able to see your screen, by the way.
Which screen you are sharing?
Now it's appearing. Okay. Got it. So what is the issue?
I'm not able to push that code to GitHub.
Hmm. Share your whole history, and I think you have shared just a single screen with me.
So, share your whole screen, basically. Just do unshare, and then share a whole screen.
Care-complete system, yeah.
How do we share.
Basically, once you are going to click on share, right, so you will be able to see, like, a entire screen option, the very first option.
No, Susan.
Let me see… yeah, now I can see your URL. And, uh, I think…
Okay, just give me a control now. No, I don't have a control, because you are not sharing the whole screen.
So… have you joined through a browser or through a Zoom app?
I have done through a browser.
Then again, I won't be able to control. So basically, to control, I need a Zoom app. Fine, share your screen, I'll help you out from here itself. So, from next time, maybe you can join through a Zoom app, that will be better. So that I can control your screen.
Yeah, share it now? Okay. So, what is the issue? You are not able to push your code to GitHub, right?
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay, not an issue. So, just, uh, uh… open up a new terminal.
Hmm. Do Git, GIT Git. Just git.
Yeah.
Just get not here. Okay, so Git is… Git is installed. Now, show me your repository.
So yeah, some keyboards.
Go to your GitHub.
Uh, I was trying to push this to this, uh. Fast report.
No, no, fine, go to GitHub, go to github.com.
Uh, this representative.
The other repository, github.com, like, the browser, where you have a GitHub repository, right?
Yeah, I mean, uh, repo only.
Go there? No, I can't see your screen, sir. Basically, you are sharing only one screen, I believe. I can see your, like, VS Code screen.
You have still, uh, because you can share your entire screen, that is an option which is available, but you have not shared the entire screen.
Okay, please give me some time, I will sit entirely. Meanwhile, you can take further discussion.
I just have only one person, I believe. I have cleared all the questions. Yeah, so Amit, what is your question?
Now, anyone else, guys, who is having questions for me? Otherwise, we'll go for closer.
Yeah, I mean, go ahead, go ahead, please, go ahead. Yamit, please go ahead.
Hello? Hello? Uh, so I'll just stop, uh…
Hmm.
Tay good?
Uh, sir, only that few things, uh… I am also working in this area, sir. So, it will be a great help, sir, if you can provide a transcript or subtitle for download purpose.
So that later we can use AI to, like, Notook, LLM, and other things, uh, to make our nodes. So, uh, in revision time, rather than going for the long video.
We can take the help of transcript sometimes, it will be a great help.
Transcripts I can provide, but for a long term, right, because we have a lot of classes, so it will be very difficult for us to, you know, maintain it. Anyhow, we are generating a transcript for this lecture. For entire lecture, we are generating a transcript, actually.
Uh, by default, Zoom is doing it, but yeah, maintaining those transcripts will be very, very difficult. Very difficult.
Right. So, um…
And, sir, secondly, sir, since, uh. We are… we are working professionals, so sometimes we might miss the class.
Hmm, hmm.
So, there might be the case, let's say, while teaching, you are referring some reference that document URL.
Hmm. Hmm.
And you are pasting in the chat. So somehow, it will be missed if we are going to see the recording.
So, best, basically, if you can basically make one document file.
Uh, in that, uh, uh, as and when, basically, you…
Hmm. And that is, sir, practically, sir, sir, sir, sir, sir, practically, see, practically, whatever I'm teaching, everything is getting recorded. Now, when you will see the recording, you will be able to see the exact same thing, and I just go ahead, whenever I'm sharing a URL, I just go ahead with a Google search approach. I do a Google search, I show you that, okay, fine, search this one, and then from there, go to the URL.
Book is open.
Now, if you are asking me to maintain all of those URLs, right, all of those URLs maintain a transcript, I don't think that it's called as real learning.
I mean, like…
No, no, no, sir, I'm not saying this. I'm saying… I'm saying, sir, through… on chat sometime, basically, Kajali, basically.
No, no, so whatever I'm showing in chat, I'm doing it on a screen as well, right?
Did… go through this URL?
Okay, okay, no issue, no issue.
No, so whatever I'm sharing in a chat… yeah, yeah, whatever I'm sharing in chat, I'm trying to show it on a screen as well, right? At the same point of a time.
And…
Yeah? Everything is getting recorded in a lecture itself. So, very difficult for me to, you know, uh, like, let's suppose I have opened up 50 different, different URLs. Now it will be very difficult for me to, you know, maintain those and upload it as a content. I mean, like, that's the reason I'm uploading a recording.
By the way, and again, I know, like, if I'm going to do that, next time I'll get another, uh, like.
Okay, so, okay, okay, okay, no issue. No issue.
Yes, yeah, so let's keep it simple. Yeah, let's keep it simple and plain. I think that, in that way, we'll be able to go very, very long.
Right? Okay.
And, sir, uh, uh… My background also a teaching, sir, so…
One… I know, basically, you are teaching really good. Isa, basically, that giving cessation to you, something like that. Basically, I am showing across the sun.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Of this, uh, med… With just one suggestion, it's a humble suggestion.
Mm-hmm.
Creating a code, basically, really doing a good job, basically, you are asking us to type with me… But at the same time, sir, it will be a great… it will help in our learning journey much more better way.
So, like, MindMeb, basically, you know, through a pen marker se bata ejay ki, ye karm me jaram logo.
And then, basically, we will quote. The Toras are learning an announcement to Jayagasar. Give me a suggestion as a security.
I mean, there was a doubt that… group mein hum announcement kerarte hailid thee, ki chi kaya topic discussed whenever. Think hai?
First stage, ki aapka yoga, minde mein, ah ye discuss honee wala hai.
Second, jazahi class start hot hai, koi bhi live class object low. Usme humidah ki pahika discuss hua tha, aur aajam lo kya kapne.
Apiskare me samjahata. Aur ye topic kali ba taiga jajka part niwale. Kiajput palingaj get padlehenge.
No, no, sir, mate… Asanta is different. Let's say…
I'm saying, basically, let's say you have a functional implement. Pseudo-algorithm type ka.
And the son of the Gibbs, JoJo… style batar pseudo-basic level na.
Ustra fellow, basically.
Hai. Right? Pseudo-basic kojota aapki college pada yatha, aapko har classes pada yatha, aapke har master jo aki palate wo aapko. U, basically, sudok, basically, koti praate board palikta hai. Una a kabi ko type ni kiya.
And that is a reality. Right? That is a reality.
Khujbini, right? Exactly. Book!
Subjective call us at Tayil.
No, no, no, argument about DNA, I'm just talking to talk about… I'm just doing a fair discussion over here. He war approach is the he-sahi here.
Pseudo-basic code pahake heart silikke ketcha for loo, fork under ase.
So, actually, Mr. According to attempt failan ki, without making a mind map.
Was it a coding with Jam Karjatrien.
Galat, Galat, Galat. Again, Galat. Chigay. Again, coding bar was hi approach hi nahi takabihi jo ham low college parahya joab boulder. Problem solved karo, aapko bug aegi, aap bug fix kar, bug fix kar ok, then aap learn kar hoge.
So these are ticket people.
Shelly, tea. Thank you, thank you, sir. Thank you.
Yeah. Okay, so, uh, please share your screen, uh, Rakesh.
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, like… No walks. Do a practical always works.
I hope it's fine with every one of us, right guys? Everyone?
Yeah. I'm not able to push the code to GitHub.
Huh. Um, go ahead. So, what is the issue, Rakis? Okay, not an issue. So, just try to open up your GitHub repository.
I was getting to see you. Yeah.
Yeah, so I can see it now. Now, come down, come down.
In the same repository, same blank repository that you've created, right? Go there.
Let's see.
Hmm. Go to the repository, come down. Now, so we have… we are able to see a couple of command, right? Okay. So, first of all, git init, git add, git commit. Now go back.
Yeah.
Go back to your, like, VS Code domino. Hmm.
So, first of all, git init. Okay, now I can see your whole screen, I can control your screen as well.
Can I give you control?
No, no, it's fine, do it. So get init is fine, re initialize the repository, okay. Then, just I'm telling you the command, type it.
Git add. No, the second one is git add.
Uh, sorry, I am having some issues.
Looks like…
Just type it, type it, type it. Git space add space dot.
Yeah, dot. Remove the readme.
Fine. Then git commit hyphen m.
Hmm, fine, it's done. Next one? So, at the branch.
It's done. Go and refresh your repository. It's available now.
Oh, thanks. I think I was missing something.
Uh, yeah, just as simple a step, right? And then you have an entire code inside API testing, so you have to… give a route directory is equal to API testing, otherwise it will not work on render.
Uh, how to…
Just do one thing. Click on New, click on New. Just create the fresh one, yeah.
New web service? Select the new repository, okay.
Go back to your repository, show me your repository once. Show me your repository. Click on API testing.
Click, click, click, click.
I think it's empty.
Is it? We'll go back to your VS Code.
Yeah, it's not over.
Api underscore testing, and you are in which directory? You are in 2025.0810.
Sorry.
Hmm. No, no, that's fine. So you have pushed the entire repository itself, right? That's fine, like, there is no issue with that.
Go back. Go back, and uh… You have basically created this with numbers. That's the issue.
That's the reason it's empty. Hmm… hmm…
Create a new repository.
Yeah, it's created.
Hmm, now do the same thing. Init, add commit, then add the branch, push it.
Hmm, in it? Fine. Uh, git add. Git add, not really mean. Git add, just simple dot.
Yes, sir.
Hmm. Git commit hyphen M message.
Remote origin already exists, so you have to write a… no, no, it will not work. Push will fail over here.
So, git remove remote origin. You have to write a command, so just go there and type a command, because it… you have already added the previous, uh…
Remove?
Get remove remote origin, R-E-M-O-T. Origin, or RGIN?
Yeah, so you have already added the previous one, it will not take the new one. Hit enter.
Good to…
Get remote remove origin, git remote. Get remote.
A new origin, yeah, that's a command.
Remove origin. Hmm. Hmm. Now, just try to add the origin.
Git remote add origin URL. No, not this one, not this one, URL. First add URL.
Hmm.
Now, last command, it will push.
No, I think you have executed once again, right? Remove origin.
No, no, no, first of all, try to execute this… Yeah, so you have removed the origin again. So just add it once again.
Oh, sorry.
Git adder.
Git remote add origin, the URL. Hmm, hit enter?
Then the last command, push. No, no, go back to your… go back to your repository, there is a command, so git push origin main.
This one, grid push origin main, yeah.
Yeah.
Not valuable? Okay, go to render.
New service, click on new, click on new, yeah. Ain.
This is your latest repository name?
I need to cancel first, I think.
No, no, it's like, just so be in the repository name. What is the repository name that you have created?
So, repository name is fast underscore AP underscore testing 002, okay.
Go back? Hmm. Uh, search for source code.
Click on edit, click on Edit.
It's not coming.
Fine, click on new. Start fresh. It will be able to refresh.
Cancel it, cancel it, yeah, or refresh it. Hmm, now it's coming. So…
Hmm. Come down, main fine, down, down, down, requirement.txt, then here, write it down, UUCon.
Yeah, testing the SDING app was fine, port, fine, okay, free.
Hmm, that is, now it's available in main root directory, right, so it's fine.
This directory is fine.
And then click on Free. Hmm. Neploy.
It'll work.
So, fine, guys, we don't have any kind of issue. The last one was a case, so with that, thank you so much, everyone.
If anyone is having any questions still, so you can raise your hand.
Uh, otherwise, we'll close the lecture for today.
It will come, it will come. Still in the building page.
Why these laws have not come?
Oh, yeah.
Hmm…
It's not live yet, maybe it will take 30 seconds, 30 more seconds. Class docs.
It will just wait for 30 more seconds.
Yeah.
Hmm, now it's live.
So, slash docs, or maybe you can hit it through a… Postglan, or curl, or anything, anywhere that you want, yeah?
Yeah.
So… Your APIs are live, yeah.
You can test it even through a curl, like, whatever method you want with that word.
Yeah. Okay, so fine, guys, thank you so much, take care, everyone. See you again in next Saturday and Sunday. Uh, hope we are able to learn a lot this weekend, Saturday and Sunday, and I'm assuming that even next week, so we will try to do a lot of learning.
A practical learning, right? Not a rote learning. Because I believe I keep on saying this part, and.
Uh… you will be able to see that it's working. With that, thank you so much, everyone. Take care, see you again, and have a great remaining Sunday, so whatever time is left, go and enjoy. With that. Thank you so much. Take care.